"Classification of Venusaur has been a long-disputed topic in the scientific community. Initially thought to be closely related to squamates like Sceptile, paleontological discoveries showed that the Pokémon were in fact far more ancient than once believed. Venusaur are considered “living fossils” of sorts because of this; up until recently, they were considered saurians, hence their names. However, examination of their skeletons has shown that one of the bones in their skulls is unlike that of any squamate or saurian known. For this reason, the Pokémon have been classified in their own branch of Reptilia.","Classification of Venusaur has been a long-disputed topic in the scientific community. Initially thought to be closely related to squamates like Sceptile, paleontological discoveries showed that the Pokémon were in fact far more ancient than once believed. Venusaur are considered “living fossils” of sorts because of this; up until recently, they were considered saurians, hence their names. However, examination of their skeletons has shown that one of the bones in their skulls is unlike that of any squamate or saurian known. For this reason, the Pokémon have been classified in their own branch of Reptilia.","Classification of Venusaur has been a long-disputed topic in the scientific community. Initially thought to be closely related to squamates like Sceptile, paleontological discoveries showed that the Pokémon were in fact far more ancient than once believed. Venusaur are considered “living fossils” of sorts because of this; up until recently, they were considered saurians, hence their names. However, examination of their skeletons has shown that one of the bones in their skulls is unlike that of any squamate or saurian known. For this reason, the Pokémon have been classified in their own branch of Reptilia.","Charizard are the only Pokémon in the group Draconidae that are not Dragon-types. Scientists are not quite sure why this is. In the past, it was believed that they were the “missing link” between draconians and squamatans, having evolved some characteristics of Draconidae, like wings, but not yet others, like the Dragon-type. However, DNA researchers have found that Charizard in fact have segments of DNA that do code for the Dragon-type, but are repressed in normal development. In certain circumstances, most notably during one form of Mega Evolution, the sequence can be expressed as the Pokémon gain their “lost” typing.","Charizard are the only Pokémon in the group Draconidae that are not Dragon-types. Scientists are not quite sure why this is. In the past, it was believed that they were the “missing link” between draconians and squamatans, having evolved some characteristics of Draconidae, like wings, but not yet others, like the Dragon-type. However, DNA researchers have found that Charizard in fact have segments of DNA that do code for the Dragon-type, but are repressed in normal development. In certain circumstances, most notably during one form of Mega Evolution, the sequence can be expressed as the Pokémon gain their “lost” typing.","Charizard are the only Pokémon in the group Draconidae that are not Dragon-types. Scientists are not quite sure why this is. In the past, it was believed that they were the “missing link” between draconians and squamatans, having evolved some characteristics of Draconidae, like wings, but not yet others, like the Dragon-type. However, DNA researchers have found that Charizard in fact have segments of DNA that do code for the Dragon-type, but are repressed in normal development. In certain circumstances, most notably during one form of Mega Evolution, the sequence can be expressed as the Pokémon gain their “lost” typing.","While the scientific community has reached a consensus regarding Blastoise’s classifications as chelonians, there is some dispute as to which other Pokémon they are most closely related to. The traditional viewpoint is that they are closest with Carracosta, a fellow bipedal, aquatic chelonian--two traits shared only between Blastoise and Carracosta and no other Pokémon in the order. The fact that Squirtle and their evolutions are sometimes found on marine islands seemed to support this connection as well. Some scientists have proposed that these similarities are merely the result of convergent evolution, however, citing DNA differences and fossil records as evidence.","While the scientific community has reached a consensus regarding Blastoise’s classifications as chelonians, there is some dispute as to which other Pokémon they are most closely related to. The traditional viewpoint is that they are closest with Carracosta, a fellow bipedal, aquatic chelonian--two traits shared only between Blastoise and Carracosta and no other Pokémon in the order. The fact that Squirtle and their evolutions are sometimes found on marine islands seemed to support this connection as well. Some scientists have proposed that these similarities are merely the result of convergent evolution, however, citing DNA differences and fossil records as evidence.","While the scientific community has reached a consensus regarding Blastoise’s classifications as chelonians, there is some dispute as to which other Pokémon they are most closely related to. The traditional viewpoint is that they are closest with Carracosta, a fellow bipedal, aquatic chelonian--two traits shared only between Blastoise and Carracosta and no other Pokémon in the order. The fact that Squirtle and their evolutions are sometimes found on marine islands seemed to support this connection as well. Some scientists have proposed that these similarities are merely the result of convergent evolution, however, citing DNA differences and fossil records as evidence.","Hundreds of years ago, before the advent of cross-regional research, many people mistakenly believed that Metapod evolved into Venomoth (and Venonat into Butterfree). This notion became widespread when a bestiary published in Hoenn regarding foreign Pokémon disseminated this false information. While Venomoth and Butterfree are both lepidopterans, they are not in the same family. Butterfree are in fact more closely related to the likes of Vivillon (their closest relatives), Beautifly, and Dustox. They seem to have adapted to thrive in wet and rainy environments, such as tropical jungles.","Hundreds of years ago, before the advent of cross-regional research, many people mistakenly believed that Metapod evolved into Venomoth (and Venonat into Butterfree). This notion became widespread when a bestiary published in Hoenn regarding foreign Pokémon disseminated this false information. While Venomoth and Butterfree are both lepidopterans, they are not in the same family. Butterfree are in fact more closely related to the likes of Vivillon (their closest relatives), Beautifly, and Dustox. They seem to have adapted to thrive in wet and rainy environments, such as tropical jungles.","Hundreds of years ago, before the advent of cross-regional research, many people mistakenly believed that Metapod evolved into Venomoth (and Venonat into Butterfree). This notion became widespread when a bestiary published in Hoenn regarding foreign Pokémon disseminated this false information. While Venomoth and Butterfree are both lepidopterans, they are not in the same family. Butterfree are in fact more closely related to the likes of Vivillon (their closest relatives), Beautifly, and Dustox. They seem to have adapted to thrive in wet and rainy environments, such as tropical jungles.","From an appearance standpoint, Weedle seem to most closely resemble Pokémon like Sewaddle and Wurmple. As they mature into Beedrill, however, they become more similar to the Pokémon Vespiquen, their closest relatives. It is thought that Beedrill and Vespiquen share a recent ancestor, having diverged based on different diets; Beedrill evolved their speed and venom to hunt, while Vespiquen developed their defensive Combee hives to store honey and protect it from Mothim. Few people know that Beedrill are in the same order as the wingless Durant; imagining a Beedrill with a metallic exoskeleton makes the similarities more apparent, however.","From an appearance standpoint, Weedle seem to most closely resemble Pokémon like Sewaddle and Wurmple. As they mature into Beedrill, however, they become more similar to the Pokémon Vespiquen, their closest relatives. It is thought that Beedrill and Vespiquen share a recent ancestor, having diverged based on different diets; Beedrill evolved their speed and venom to hunt, while Vespiquen developed their defensive Combee hives to store honey and protect it from Mothim. Few people know that Beedrill are in the same order as the wingless Durant; imagining a Beedrill with a metallic exoskeleton makes the similarities more apparent, however.","From an appearance standpoint, Weedle seem to most closely resemble Pokémon like Sewaddle and Wurmple. As they mature into Beedrill, however, they become more similar to the Pokémon Vespiquen, their closest relatives. It is thought that Beedrill and Vespiquen share a recent ancestor, having diverged based on different diets; Beedrill evolved their speed and venom to hunt, while Vespiquen developed their defensive Combee hives to store honey and protect it from Mothim. Few people know that Beedrill are in the same order as the wingless Durant; imagining a Beedrill with a metallic exoskeleton makes the similarities more apparent, however.","Pidgeot is one of the five traditional “birds of prey” in popular culture, alongside Talonflame, Staraptor, Mandibuzz, and Braviary. While other members of this group have varied over time (past and potential members include the likes of Hawlucha, Noctowl, Fearow, and Skarmory), these Pokémon are almost always included. Each represents a different desirable quality. Pidgeot symbolize beauty, for instance--though in Kanto and Johto, they also represent speed as well. Evolutionarily speaking, while Pidgeot are related to all of the birds of prey, they are most closely connected to Talonflame, who fills a niche in Kalos similar to that of Pidgeot in Kanto and Johto.","Pidgeot is one of the five traditional “birds of prey” in popular culture, alongside Talonflame, Staraptor, Mandibuzz, and Braviary. While other members of this group have varied over time (past and potential members include the likes of Hawlucha, Noctowl, Fearow, and Skarmory), these Pokémon are almost always included. Each represents a different desirable quality. Pidgeot symbolize beauty, for instance--though in Kanto and Johto, they also represent speed as well. Evolutionarily speaking, while Pidgeot are related to all of the birds of prey, they are most closely connected to Talonflame, who fills a niche in Kalos similar to that of Pidgeot in Kanto and Johto.","Pidgeot is one of the five traditional “birds of prey” in popular culture, alongside Talonflame, Staraptor, Mandibuzz, and Braviary. While other members of this group have varied over time (past and potential members include the likes of Hawlucha, Noctowl, Fearow, and Skarmory), these Pokémon are almost always included. Each represents a different desirable quality. Pidgeot symbolize beauty, for instance--though in Kanto and Johto, they also represent speed as well. Evolutionarily speaking, while Pidgeot are related to all of the birds of prey, they are most closely connected to Talonflame, who fills a niche in Kalos similar to that of Pidgeot in Kanto and Johto.","Most people first think of Raticate when the word “rodent” is mentioned, as they hold many of the order’s signature traits. Rodents has historically been difficult to classify, however, due to the multitude of Electric-types that share few characteristics other than their typings. Though Raticate were once grouped with Bibarel and Cinccino on account of their Normal-typings, closer research has indicated that they are more closely related to Plusle, Minun, and Raichu. Despite their reputation as pests, however, Rattata and Raticate are integral to many ecosystems, particularly as a steady food supply for predators; few Pokémon reproduce as quickly as them.","Most people first think of Raticate when the word “rodent” is mentioned, as they hold many of the order’s signature traits. Rodents has historically been difficult to classify, however, due to the multitude of Electric-types that share few characteristics other than their typings. Though Raticate were once grouped with Bibarel and Cinccino on account of their Normal-typings, closer research has indicated that they are more closely related to Plusle, Minun, and Raichu. Despite their reputation as pests, however, Rattata and Raticate are integral to many ecosystems, particularly as a steady food supply for predators; few Pokémon reproduce as quickly as them.","Fearow were once considered a “bird of prey,” representing loyalty. However, scientific research has shown that they are in fact passerines, more closely related to Honchkrow and Swellow than Pidgeot or Staraptor. Still, their association with the birds of prey remains ingrained in popular culture. Fearow are notable for being the only exclusively carnivorous passerine, likely why they were grouped with the raptors in the first place. They appear to have evolved this trait separately from the other birds of prey. In the Kanto and Johto regions, Fearow fill the a niche in desolate regions similar to the role Pidgeot play in forests, though their ranges overlap in some areas.","Fearow were once considered a “bird of prey,” representing loyalty. However, scientific research has shown that they are in fact passerines, more closely related to Honchkrow and Swellow than Pidgeot or Staraptor. Still, their association with the birds of prey remains ingrained in popular culture. Fearow are notable for being the only exclusively carnivorous passerine, likely why they were grouped with the raptors in the first place. They appear to have evolved this trait separately from the other birds of prey. In the Kanto and Johto regions, Fearow fill the a niche in desolate regions similar to the role Pidgeot play in forests, though their ranges overlap in some areas.","The pattern on the bellies of Arbok, which differs from region to region, appears to have adapted to the different Pokémon that live in each area. Their “faces” seem to depict “eyes” that match those of the apex predators of the habitat, specific to the region. So far, scientists have identified over 20 distinct patterns. Although both Arbok and Seviper have venom, Arbok in fact seem to share more similarities with Serperior, who are their closest known living relatives. Most notably, both Pokémon lack hollow fangs, which are one of Seviper’s signature traits. The fact that Arbok and Seviper both have venom is likely a result of convergent evolution.","The pattern on the bellies of Arbok, which differs from region to region, appears to have adapted to the different Pokémon that live in each area. Their “faces” seem to depict “eyes” that match those of the apex predators of the habitat, specific to the region. So far, scientists have identified over 20 distinct patterns. Although both Arbok and Seviper have venom, Arbok in fact seem to share more similarities with Serperior, who are their closest known living relatives. Most notably, both Pokémon lack hollow fangs, which are one of Seviper’s signature traits. The fact that Arbok and Seviper both have venom is likely a result of convergent evolution.","Pichu are exceedingly rare in Kanto, especially considering that Pikachu are already rather uncommon and Raichu are even more elusive. Though slightly more common in Johto, they still are by no means abundant Pokémon. These Pokémon are most closely related to Plusle and Minun; although many people believe that they are related to Azumarill, the two Pokémon are in fact not even in the same order. Likely because Raichu are even rarer than Pikachu, in a recent poll conducted by the Unova branch of the Pokémon Fan Club, 45% of the people surveyed were unaware that Pikachu evolved at all.","Pichu are exceedingly rare in Kanto, especially considering that Pikachu are already rather uncommon and Raichu are even more elusive. Though slightly more common in Johto, they still are by no means abundant Pokémon. These Pokémon are most closely related to Plusle and Minun; although many people believe that they are related to Azumarill, the two Pokémon are in fact not even in the same order. Likely because Raichu are even rarer than Pikachu, in a recent poll conducted by the Unova branch of the Pokémon Fan Club, 45% of the people surveyed were unaware that Pikachu evolved at all.","Sandslash are an evolutionary oddity; in modern phylogenetics, they are classified in and are the sole members of their own order. Their closest living relatives, surprisingly, are the mammalian carnivores, like Zangoose, Ursaring, Pangoro, and Stouland. This is particularly intriguing because of the fact that both Sandshrew and Sandslash are exclusively insectivores. In the past, Sandslash was grouped with Heatmor, who they physically bear a mild resemblance as well as a similar diet to, and, oddly, Slaking. DNA evidence was the largest factor in accepting the proposed change.","Sandslash are an evolutionary oddity; in modern phylogenetics, they are classified in and are the sole members of their own order. Their closest living relatives, surprisingly, are the mammalian carnivores, like Zangoose, Ursaring, Pangoro, and Stouland. This is particularly intriguing because of the fact that both Sandshrew and Sandslash are exclusively insectivores. In the past, Sandslash was grouped with Heatmor, who they physically bear a mild resemblance as well as a similar diet to, and, oddly, Slaking. DNA evidence was the largest factor in accepting the proposed change.","The Nidoran family exhibits both reptilian and mammalian characteristics. Though they superficially may resemble Rhyperior or even Chesnaught, they are in fact lagomorphs. Their physical similarities with this group are most apparent with Nidoran, who share the order’s large ears and dental structure. They appear to be one of the earliest families to diverge in the order (only Exploud is thought to have diverged before them), explaining why they bear fewer resemblances with more traditional lagomorphs like Lopunny or Diggersby. Their thick hides and venom are thought to have adapted in direct response to predation from Pokémon like Fearow.","The Nidoran family exhibits both reptilian and mammalian characteristics. Though they superficially may resemble Rhyperior or even Chesnaught, they are in fact lagomorphs. Their physical similarities with this group are most apparent with Nidoran, who share the order’s large ears and dental structure. They appear to be one of the earliest families to diverge in the order (only Exploud is thought to have diverged before them), explaining why they bear fewer resemblances with more traditional lagomorphs like Lopunny or Diggersby. Their thick hides and venom are thought to have adapted in direct response to predation from Pokémon like Fearow.","The Nidoran family exhibits both reptilian and mammalian characteristics. Though they superficially may resemble Rhyperior or even Chesnaught, they are in fact lagomorphs. Their physical similarities with this group are most apparent with Nidoran, who share the order’s large ears and dental structure. They appear to be one of the earliest families to diverge in the order (only Exploud is thought to have diverged before them), explaining why they bear fewer resemblances with more traditional lagomorphs like Lopunny or Diggersby. Their thick hides and venom are thought to have adapted in direct response to predation from Pokémon like Fearow.","The Nidoran family exhibits both reptilian and mammalian characteristics. Though they superficially may resemble Rhyperior or even Chesnaught, they are in fact lagomorphs. Their physical similarities with this group are most apparent with Nidoran, who share the order’s large ears and dental structure. They appear to be one of the earliest families to diverge in the order (only Exploud is thought to have diverged before them), explaining why they bear fewer resemblances with more traditional lagomorphs like Lopunny or Diggersby. Their thick hides and venom are thought to have adapted in direct response to predation from Pokémon like Fearow.","The Nidoran family exhibits both reptilian and mammalian characteristics. Though they superficially may resemble Rhyperior or even Chesnaught, they are in fact lagomorphs. Their physical similarities with this group are most apparent with Nidoran, who share the order’s large ears and dental structure. They appear to be one of the earliest families to diverge in the order (only Exploud is thought to have diverged before them), explaining why they bear fewer resemblances with more traditional lagomorphs like Lopunny or Diggersby. Their thick hides and venom are thought to have adapted in direct response to predation from Pokémon like Fearow.","The Nidoran family exhibits both reptilian and mammalian characteristics. Though they superficially may resemble Rhyperior or even Chesnaught, they are in fact lagomorphs. Their physical similarities with this group are most apparent with Nidoran, who share the order’s large ears and dental structure. They appear to be one of the earliest families to diverge in the order (only Exploud is thought to have diverged before them), explaining why they bear fewer resemblances with more traditional lagomorphs like Lopunny or Diggersby. Their thick hides and venom are thought to have adapted in direct response to predation from Pokémon like Fearow.","Cleffa and their evolutions are one of the most elusive Pokémon known to man, other than legendary Pokémon. For this reason, many people thought they were a myth up until recent times. Even now, the Cleffa line is a conundrum to modern phylogenetics. Traditionally, they were thought to be most closely related to Wigglytuff. However, a quickly growing sect of scientists, including nearly all of the researchers stationed at Mt. Moon (where Clefairy are most abundant), have lent their support to the idea that they are in fact extraterrestrial Pokémon with no evolutionary connections to any other worldly Pokémon.","Cleffa and their evolutions are one of the most elusive Pokémon known to man, other than legendary Pokémon. For this reason, many people thought they were a myth up until recent times. Even now, the Cleffa line is a conundrum to modern phylogenetics. Traditionally, they were thought to be most closely related to Wigglytuff. However, a quickly growing sect of scientists, including nearly all of the researchers stationed at Mt. Moon (where Clefairy are most abundant), have lent their support to the idea that they are in fact extraterrestrial Pokémon with no evolutionary connections to any other worldly Pokémon.","Ninetales are in many regards the archetypes of the Vulpes genus; the group was even named after their pre-evolutions Vulpix. As one might have guessed, their closest evolutionary relatives are Delphox, who share their Fire-typings and affinities for the supernatural. While Delphox specialize in Psychic-type techniques, though, Ninetales are more skilled with Ghost-type moves, despite not actually possessing the typing. Ninetales are also adapted to less arid climates than their bipedal brethren; Vulpix have to consciously expend energy by expelling flames to cool down, making them poorly suited to the chaparrals and deserts that Fennekin call home.","Ninetales are in many regards the archetypes of the Vulpes genus; the group was even named after their pre-evolutions Vulpix. As one might have guessed, their closest evolutionary relatives are Delphox, who share their Fire-typings and affinities for the supernatural. While Delphox specialize in Psychic-type techniques, though, Ninetales are more skilled with Ghost-type moves, despite not actually possessing the typing. Ninetales are also adapted to less arid climates than their bipedal brethren; Vulpix have to consciously expend energy by expelling flames to cool down, making them poorly suited to the chaparrals and deserts that Fennekin call home.","Wigglytuff are lagomorphs, and are thought to be most closely related to the Pokémon Azumarill. Both Pokémon share the characteristics of long ears and rotund bodies. However, while Azumarill and their pre-evolutions have developed oil sacs attached to their bodies like tails to stay afloat in the water, Wigglytuff and their pre-evolutions have evolved air sacs within their bodies to float about in the winds. Interestingly, both of these adaptations serve similar purposes, only in different mediums. The singing ability of this line appears to be a secondary development as a byproduct of their huge air sacs.","Wigglytuff are lagomorphs, and are thought to be most closely related to the Pokémon Azumarill. Both Pokémon share the characteristics of long ears and rotund bodies. However, while Azumarill and their pre-evolutions have developed oil sacs attached to their bodies like tails to stay afloat in the water, Wigglytuff and their pre-evolutions have evolved air sacs within their bodies to float about in the winds. Interestingly, both of these adaptations serve similar purposes, only in different mediums. The singing ability of this line appears to be a secondary development as a byproduct of their huge air sacs.","Though all members of the Zubat line possess wings and are capable of flight, they are not birds. These Pokémon are in fact mammals, belonging to the order Chiroptera. Alongside their brethren Noivern and Swoobat, they are the only known mammals with wings. Zubat in particular are notable for being troglobites, having lost their eyes and noses to adapt to life in complete darkness; they rely on echolocation to navigate. Though both Golbat and Crobat possess eyes, these organs are weak and function primarily as light detectors, so they still rely on their senses of sound when flying about.","Though all members of the Zubat line possess wings and are capable of flight, they are not birds. These Pokémon are in fact mammals, belonging to the order Chiroptera. Alongside their brethren Noivern and Swoobat, they are the only known mammals with wings. Zubat in particular are notable for being troglobites, having lost their eyes and noses to adapt to life in complete darkness; they rely on echolocation to navigate. Though both Golbat and Crobat possess eyes, these organs are weak and function primarily as light detectors, so they still rely on their senses of sound when flying about.","The Oddish line is a evolutionary oddity placed in the same order as Tsareena. Its two naturally occurring members, Oddish and Gloom, cannot photosynthesize; Vileplume cannot, either, but Bellossom can. It is thought that Oddish and Gloom developed their alternative feeding methods in order to survive in nutrient-poor swamps, in a manner similar to the carnivorous Carnivine. Vileplume, similarly, continue this development. Some scientists believe that contact with Sun Stones activates a repressed gene in Gloom that allow them to photosynthesize amongst other changes, such as loss of the Poison-typing and reduced stature.","The Oddish line is a evolutionary oddity placed in the same order as Tsareena. Its two naturally occurring members, Oddish and Gloom, cannot photosynthesize; Vileplume cannot, either, but Bellossom can. It is thought that Oddish and Gloom developed their alternative feeding methods in order to survive in nutrient-poor swamps, in a manner similar to the carnivorous Carnivine. Vileplume, similarly, continue this development. Some scientists believe that contact with Sun Stones activates a repressed gene in Gloom that allow them to photosynthesize amongst other changes, such as loss of the Poison-typing and reduced stature.","The Oddish line is a evolutionary oddity placed in the same order as Tsareena. Its two naturally occurring members, Oddish and Gloom, cannot photosynthesize; Vileplume cannot, either, but Bellossom can. It is thought that Oddish and Gloom developed their alternative feeding methods in order to survive in nutrient-poor swamps, in a manner similar to the carnivorous Carnivine. Vileplume, similarly, continue this development. Some scientists believe that contact with Sun Stones activates a repressed gene in Gloom that allow them to photosynthesize amongst other changes, such as loss of the Poison-typing and reduced stature.","Paras and Parasect are technically two organisms. However, because neither the insect nor the mushroom can survive on its own or even with other partners, they are classified as a single species. The fungi’s hyphae have evolved to only burrow into the exoskeletons of insects, while the nervous systems of the hosts have withered to the point that they cannot survive without the mushrooms controlling them. The Paras line (or, at least, the hosts) is very closely related to the Nincada line; some scientists believe that their distant relatives, before the species became dependent on their fungi, also became winged upon evolution like Ninjask.","Paras and Parasect are technically two organisms. However, because neither the insect nor the mushroom can survive on its own or even with other partners, they are classified as a single species. The fungi’s hyphae have evolved to only burrow into the exoskeletons of insects, while the nervous systems of the hosts have withered to the point that they cannot survive without the mushrooms controlling them. The Paras line (or, at least, the hosts) is very closely related to the Nincada line; some scientists believe that their distant relatives, before the species became dependent on their fungi, also became winged upon evolution like Ninjask.","The loss of compound eyes that Venonat undergo when they evolve into Venomoth has baffled scientists for years. It is understandable that people once thought Venonat evolved into Butterfree (who also have compound eyes) for this reason. Though some people think that Venomoth are most closely related to the likes of Butterfree and Dustox, this is in fact not true; while the latter two are holometabolic (meaning that they undergo three stages of development), Venomoth are hemimetabolic (meaning that they undergo two stages of development). This makes them much more likely to be related to Pokémon like Mothim and Masquerain.","The loss of compound eyes that Venonat undergo when they evolve into Venomoth has baffled scientists for years. It is understandable that people once thought Venonat evolved into Butterfree (who also have compound eyes) for this reason. Though some people think that Venomoth are most closely related to the likes of Butterfree and Dustox, this is in fact not true; while the latter two are holometabolic (meaning that they undergo three stages of development), Venomoth are hemimetabolic (meaning that they undergo two stages of development). This makes them much more likely to be related to Pokémon like Mothim and Masquerain.","It is exceedingly difficult to properly classify the Diglett line simply because no one knows what the Pokémon look like beneath the surface. Based on their subterranean lifestyles, semi-insectivorous diets, and probable possession of sharp claws, phylogenists have tentatively placed them in the order Insectivora, with their closest relatives being Excadrill.  However, the Diglett line also consumes plant roots at all stages, so they are not entirely insectivorous. In order for these Pokémon to be properly placed, the mystery of what their full bodies look like must first be solved--one of the greatest mysteries of the Pokémon world.","It is exceedingly difficult to properly classify the Diglett line simply because no one knows what the Pokémon look like beneath the surface. Based on their subterranean lifestyles, semi-insectivorous diets, and probable possession of sharp claws, phylogenists have tentatively placed them in the order Insectivora, with their closest relatives being Excadrill.  However, the Diglett line also consumes plant roots at all stages, so they are not entirely insectivorous. In order for these Pokémon to be properly placed, the mystery of what their full bodies look like must first be solved--one of the greatest mysteries of the Pokémon world.","While Persian are unmistakably felines, the scientific community has only recently reached a consensus as to exactly where the Pokémon stand in the family. Physically, both in morphology and in size, Persian appear to be “big cats,” and were once grouped as such alongside the likes of Liepard, Pyroar, and Luxray. They are now classified with the “small cats,” albeit as the largest members of the group, due to recent DNA and skeletal evidence. The resemblances between Meowth and other small cats like Skitty and Glameow are readily apparent. Additionally, like the other small cats, Persian tend to thrive in urban environments, either as strays or as pets.","While Persian are unmistakably felines, the scientific community has only recently reached a consensus as to exactly where the Pokémon stand in the family. Physically, both in morphology and in size, Persian appear to be “big cats,” and were once grouped as such alongside the likes of Liepard, Pyroar, and Luxray. They are now classified with the “small cats,” albeit as the largest members of the group, due to recent DNA and skeletal evidence. The resemblances between Meowth and other small cats like Skitty and Glameow are readily apparent. Additionally, like the other small cats, Persian tend to thrive in urban environments, either as strays or as pets.","The classification of Golduck is a perplexing conundrum that has baffled scientists for centuries. With their bills and webbed limbs, they seem to resemble aquatic avians, but with their lack of wings but possession of tails, they seem to have traits of reptilians or mammalians. They were once tentatively placed in the same group as Pokémon like Farfetch’d and Swanna, but now are classified as mammals, though primitive ones at that. Another oddity that these Pokémon possess is that they lay eggs in the wild instead of giving live birth like other mammals. They share this trait with their fellow monotremes Blissey.","The classification of Golduck is a perplexing conundrum that has baffled scientists for centuries. With their bills and webbed limbs, they seem to resemble aquatic avians, but with their lack of wings but possession of tails, they seem to have traits of reptilians or mammalians. They were once tentatively placed in the same group as Pokémon like Farfetch’d and Swanna, but now are classified as mammals, though primitive ones at that. Another oddity that these Pokémon possess is that they lay eggs in the wild instead of giving live birth like other mammals. They share this trait with their fellow monotremes Blissey.","As their names may suggest, Primeape are classified as primates. They are thought to be the earliest-diverging members of the order, though some scientists believe that this honor in fact goes to Ambipom. A curious trait that Primeape possess is the lack of a distinct torso (or head, depending on how one looks at it). This characteristic seems to be a detriment to their evolutionary fitness; however, their fellow primates Darmanitan also possess this trait, despite being thought to have evolved it separately through convergent evolution. What benefits the lack of distinct body segmentation could provide is unknown.","As their names may suggest, Primeape are classified as primates. They are thought to be the earliest-diverging members of the order, though some scientists believe that this honor in fact goes to Ambipom. A curious trait that Primeape possess is the lack of a distinct torso (or head, depending on how one looks at it). This characteristic seems to be a detriment to their evolutionary fitness; however, their fellow primates Darmanitan also possess this trait, despite being thought to have evolved it separately through convergent evolution. What benefits the lack of distinct body segmentation could provide is unknown.","Arcanine are clearly canines, as many young trainers learn early in their educations. They are thought to have shared a recent ancestor with Manectric, but are believed to be most closely related to Stoutland. Both of these Pokémon thrive exceptionally well alongside humans; scientists believe that they were likely tamed separately, however. While Stoutland are adapted to cold mountain climates thanks to their thick fur, Arcanine are suited for vast, open plains and prairies. Their connection with humans seems to run so deep that even wild Growlithe are very affectionate with people. Their remains have been found in Stone Age human settlements, indicating a very ancient relationship with people.","Arcanine are clearly canines, as many young trainers learn early in their educations. They are thought to have shared a recent ancestor with Manectric, but are believed to be most closely related to Stoutland. Both of these Pokémon thrive exceptionally well alongside humans; scientists believe that they were likely tamed separately, however. While Stoutland are adapted to cold mountain climates thanks to their thick fur, Arcanine are suited for vast, open plains and prairies. Their connection with humans seems to run so deep that even wild Growlithe are very affectionate with people. Their remains have been found in Stone Age human settlements, indicating a very ancient relationship with people.","Most wild Poliwhirl don’t evolve, as neither Water Stones nor King’s Rocks are common items. Naturally, the Pokémon are neotenous, as they never mature into the standard morphology of typical anurans (for example, Greninja). Even upon evolution into Poliwrath, they still don’t quite resemble adult Pokémon from their order. This contrast is most apparent when Poliwag are compared with Tympole; while Poliwag and Tympole resemble each other, Poliwrath and Seismitoad seem far more disparate. Scientists think that Politoed represent what the Pokémon would look like if they weren’t neotenous, though the evolutionary advantage of neoteny is still a mystery.","Most wild Poliwhirl don’t evolve, as neither Water Stones nor King’s Rocks are common items. Naturally, the Pokémon are neotenous, as they never mature into the standard morphology of typical anurans (for example, Greninja). Even upon evolution into Poliwrath, they still don’t quite resemble adult Pokémon from their order. This contrast is most apparent when Poliwag are compared with Tympole; while Poliwag and Tympole resemble each other, Poliwrath and Seismitoad seem far more disparate. Scientists think that Politoed represent what the Pokémon would look like if they weren’t neotenous, though the evolutionary advantage of neoteny is still a mystery.","Most wild Poliwhirl don’t evolve, as neither Water Stones nor King’s Rocks are common items. Naturally, the Pokémon are neotenous, as they never mature into the standard morphology of typical anurans (for example, Greninja). Even upon evolution into Poliwrath, they still don’t quite resemble adult Pokémon from their order. This contrast is most apparent when Poliwag are compared with Tympole; while Poliwag and Tympole resemble each other, Poliwrath and Seismitoad seem far more disparate. Scientists think that Politoed represent what the Pokémon would look like if they weren’t neotenous, though the evolutionary advantage of neoteny is still a mystery.","Though Alakazam appear to possess traits characteristic both of canines and felines, they seem to more closely resemble the former; in particular, they are likely the closest living relatives of the Pokémon Zoroark, and as such are placed in the genus Vulpes. With the exception of Eevee, who likely resulted from artificial selection by humans, this genus appears to share a propensity for the supernatural; Ninetales is closely associated with spirits while Zoroark are masters of illusion. Alakazam are no different, wielding some of the most powerful psychokinetic abilities known to man.","Though Alakazam appear to possess traits characteristic both of canines and felines, they seem to more closely resemble the former; in particular, they are likely the closest living relatives of the Pokémon Zoroark, and as such are placed in the genus Vulpes. With the exception of Eevee, who likely resulted from artificial selection by humans, this genus appears to share a propensity for the supernatural; Ninetales is closely associated with spirits while Zoroark are masters of illusion. Alakazam are no different, wielding some of the most powerful psychokinetic abilities known to man.","Though Alakazam appear to possess traits characteristic both of canines and felines, they seem to more closely resemble the former; in particular, they are likely the closest living relatives of the Pokémon Zoroark, and as such are placed in the genus Vulpes. With the exception of Eevee, who likely resulted from artificial selection by humans, this genus appears to share a propensity for the supernatural; Ninetales is closely associated with spirits while Zoroark are masters of illusion. Alakazam are no different, wielding some of the most powerful psychokinetic abilities known to man.","Machamp are classified as primates, and are prime candidates for a new proposed grouping named “humanoids;” the group would, as the name suggests, consist of Pokémon that resemble and are closely related to people. Machamp are thought to be one of man’s closest Pokémon brethren, surpassed only by Mr. Mime and a few others. Though they may appear vaguely reptilian, their opposable thumbs and distinctly mammalian anatomies prove otherwise. In popular culture, Machamp are often seen as counterparts of Alakazam, representing the age-old struggle of “brains versus brawn.”","Machamp are classified as primates, and are prime candidates for a new proposed grouping named “humanoids;” the group would, as the name suggests, consist of Pokémon that resemble and are closely related to people. Machamp are thought to be one of man’s closest Pokémon brethren, surpassed only by Mr. Mime and a few others. Though they may appear vaguely reptilian, their opposable thumbs and distinctly mammalian anatomies prove otherwise. In popular culture, Machamp are often seen as counterparts of Alakazam, representing the age-old struggle of “brains versus brawn.”","Machamp are classified as primates, and are prime candidates for a new proposed grouping named “humanoids;” the group would, as the name suggests, consist of Pokémon that resemble and are closely related to people. Machamp are thought to be one of man’s closest Pokémon brethren, surpassed only by Mr. Mime and a few others. Though they may appear vaguely reptilian, their opposable thumbs and distinctly mammalian anatomies prove otherwise. In popular culture, Machamp are often seen as counterparts of Alakazam, representing the age-old struggle of “brains versus brawn.”","As carnivorous plant-like Pokémon, Victreebel are most closely related to Carnivine. In addition to their dietary habits, the two Pokémon also dwell in humid environments, oftentimes in places with acidic soil. The sweet-smelling, aromatic compound that Carnivine drool to attract prey has been found to be the same substance that is present in the acid of the Bellsprout line, also giving it a saccharine fragrance. It is a surprise to many people that their next closest relatives are Cacturne and Maractus, especially given how the latter two reside exclusively in arid deserts; DNA sequencing was the primary evidence in establishing this connection.","As carnivorous plant-like Pokémon, Victreebel are most closely related to Carnivine. In addition to their dietary habits, the two Pokémon also dwell in humid environments, oftentimes in places with acidic soil. The sweet-smelling, aromatic compound that Carnivine drool to attract prey has been found to be the same substance that is present in the acid of the Bellsprout line, also giving it a saccharine fragrance. It is a surprise to many people that their next closest relatives are Cacturne and Maractus, especially given how the latter two reside exclusively in arid deserts; DNA sequencing was the primary evidence in establishing this connection.","As carnivorous plant-like Pokémon, Victreebel are most closely related to Carnivine. In addition to their dietary habits, the two Pokémon also dwell in humid environments, oftentimes in places with acidic soil. The sweet-smelling, aromatic compound that Carnivine drool to attract prey has been found to be the same substance that is present in the acid of the Bellsprout line, also giving it a saccharine fragrance. It is a surprise to many people that their next closest relatives are Cacturne and Maractus, especially given how the latter two reside exclusively in arid deserts; DNA sequencing was the primary evidence in establishing this connection.","The cnidarians Tentacool and Tentacruel are very closely related to Jellicent, though it comes as a surprise to many that they are also relatives of Corsola. These Pokémon are infamous for being abundant in oceans across the world. Tentacool are the most common source of Pokémon-related injury on beaches, stinging unfortunate swimmers and anglers as they drift about in shallow water. Because so much of their bodies are made of water, one would think that they would be very sensitive to water pollution. Their Poison-typings, however, enable them to survive even in sullied seas. This in part explains their plentifulness near human settlements.","The cnidarians Tentacool and Tentacruel are very closely related to Jellicent, though it comes as a surprise to many that they are also relatives of Corsola. These Pokémon are infamous for being abundant in oceans across the world. Tentacool are the most common source of Pokémon-related injury on beaches, stinging unfortunate swimmers and anglers as they drift about in shallow water. Because so much of their bodies are made of water, one would think that they would be very sensitive to water pollution. Their Poison-typings, however, enable them to survive even in sullied seas. This in part explains their plentifulness near human settlements.","Golem and their evolutions are likely the first non-carbon-based Pokémon most trainers encounter during their journeys. They have been found in every region discovered so far (though in Unova, they are far less common, with their niche instead being occupied by the Roggenrola line in most habitats). Being inorganic, Golem have significantly different biological pathways than most other Pokémon; since they don’t need air or water, they can survive in barren, rocky areas. Unlike their relatives Gigalith and Carbink, Golem don’t make their homes deep within the earth, since they don’t need the crushing pressure to properly develop.","Golem and their evolutions are likely the first non-carbon-based Pokémon most trainers encounter during their journeys. They have been found in every region discovered so far (though in Unova, they are far less common, with their niche instead being occupied by the Roggenrola line in most habitats). Being inorganic, Golem have significantly different biological pathways than most other Pokémon; since they don’t need air or water, they can survive in barren, rocky areas. Unlike their relatives Gigalith and Carbink, Golem don’t make their homes deep within the earth, since they don’t need the crushing pressure to properly develop.","Golem and their evolutions are likely the first non-carbon-based Pokémon most trainers encounter during their journeys. They have been found in every region discovered so far (though in Unova, they are far less common, with their niche instead being occupied by the Roggenrola line in most habitats). Being inorganic, Golem have significantly different biological pathways than most other Pokémon; since they don’t need air or water, they can survive in barren, rocky areas. Unlike their relatives Gigalith and Carbink, Golem don’t make their homes deep within the earth, since they don’t need the crushing pressure to properly develop.","Rapidash are perhaps the most well-known of the ungulates, which contain Pokémon that range from the likes of Musharna and Bouffalant to Sawsbuck and Gogoat. In particular, they are perissodactyls, meaning that they have an odd number of toes. It is no surprise that their closest living relatives are Mudsdale and Zebstrika, who share their general physiology. Zebstrika even have a similar diet and habitat, though in different parts of the world. They are classified in the same genus, Equus, and are characterized by their hooves and relatively simple digestive systems when compared to ruminants like Miltank and Tauros.","Rapidash are perhaps the most well-known of the ungulates, which contain Pokémon that range from the likes of Musharna and Bouffalant to Sawsbuck and Gogoat. In particular, they are perissodactyls, meaning that they have an odd number of toes. It is no surprise that their closest living relatives are Mudsdale and Zebstrika, who share their general physiology. Zebstrika even have a similar diet and habitat, though in different parts of the world. They are classified in the same genus, Equus, and are characterized by their hooves and relatively simple digestive systems when compared to ruminants like Miltank and Tauros.","The Slowpoke line seems to be an amalgamation of reptilian, amphibious, and mammalian traits. They seem to be evolutionary closest to the amphibians; specifically, they are urodelans, alongside the likes of Quagsire and Swampert. Curiously, they don’t have the need to keep their skin moist like most amphibians, as they do not breathe through it. They have more complex lungs than their brethren, but their development seems to have occurred seperately from their evolution in reptiles and mammals, since the structures differs physiologically. Shellder poison seems to activate the production of a hormone that triggers their evolution and mental stimulation.","The Slowpoke line seems to be an amalgamation of reptilian, amphibious, and mammalian traits. They seem to be evolutionary closest to the amphibians; specifically, they are urodelans, alongside the likes of Quagsire and Swampert. Curiously, they don’t have the need to keep their skin moist like most amphibians, as they do not breathe through it. They have more complex lungs than their brethren, but their development seems to have occurred seperately from their evolution in reptiles and mammals, since the structures differs physiologically. Shellder poison seems to activate the production of a hormone that triggers their evolution and mental stimulation.","Magnezone are inorganic Pokémon that have metal-based bodies rather than carbon-based ones. This puts them in the same group as Pokémon like Klingklang and Bronzong. Since they are inorganic, exactly where they fall in the classification system is uncertain. In systems where all Pokémon, both carbon-based and non-carbon-based, are placed in the same kingdom, they are either classified alongside Electrode on the grounds of their shared electrogenesis abilities, or with Metagross based on their shared electromagnetic abilities. Of course, there is also the very plausible possibility that one or more of these Pokémon arose independently of the others.","Magnezone are inorganic Pokémon that have metal-based bodies rather than carbon-based ones. This puts them in the same group as Pokémon like Klingklang and Bronzong. Since they are inorganic, exactly where they fall in the classification system is uncertain. In systems where all Pokémon, both carbon-based and non-carbon-based, are placed in the same kingdom, they are either classified alongside Electrode on the grounds of their shared electrogenesis abilities, or with Metagross based on their shared electromagnetic abilities. Of course, there is also the very plausible possibility that one or more of these Pokémon arose independently of the others.","Farfetch’d are very rare in the wild because of overhunting in the recent past. For this reason, information that would normally arise from naturalistic observation of the Pokémon is scarce. Regardless, they clearly appear to be waterfowl, grouped with Pokémon like Swanna and Golduck (though the placement of the latter is very controversial). Though they appear to be rather “generic” and typical of their order, they do have a notable adaptation in that their wings have evolved to become more finger-like in order to allow them to better grasp leeks. This is significant in that it is one of the few known natural cases where a species has evolved the ability to use tools.","Dodrio are odd in that they are flightless avians, a seeming oxymoron. Their wings have degenerated to the point of uselessness, though vestigial traces of them are still left in their skeletons and musculature. They are thought to be one of the most ancient of avians, having branched off far earlier than songbirds like Swellow or Altaria. They are believed to be the only known surviving member of an entire order of flightless birds, with some extinct members being much larger than the living Dodrio. They were incorrectly named after another extinct flightless avian, who in fact was more closely related to the extant Unfezant.","Dodrio are odd in that they are flightless avians, a seeming oxymoron. Their wings have degenerated to the point of uselessness, though vestigial traces of them are still left in their skeletons and musculature. They are thought to be one of the most ancient of avians, having branched off far earlier than songbirds like Swellow or Altaria. They are believed to be the only known surviving member of an entire order of flightless birds, with some extinct members being much larger than the living Dodrio. They were incorrectly named after another extinct flightless avian, who in fact was more closely related to the extant Unfezant.","Dewgong are commonly mistaken for pinnipeds, and are widely believed to be close relatives of the similar-looking Walrein. Scientists even believed the two Pokémon were in the same order for a long time. However, Dewgong in fact the only known member of their own order, separate from the likes of Walrein and Samurott. They have no extant brethren in this grouping, though fossils have been found of similar Pokémon. Though their closest living relatives are in fact ungulates like Donphan and Mamoswine, Dewgong are thought to have had a very recent ancestor that only went extinct a few hundred years ago.","Dewgong are commonly mistaken for pinnipeds, and are widely believed to be close relatives of the similar-looking Walrein. Scientists even believed the two Pokémon were in the same order for a long time. However, Dewgong in fact the only known member of their own order, separate from the likes of Walrein and Samurott. They have no extant brethren in this grouping, though fossils have been found of similar Pokémon. Though their closest living relatives are in fact ungulates like Donphan and Mamoswine, Dewgong are thought to have had a very recent ancestor that only went extinct a few hundred years ago.","Grimer appear to have mutated spontaneously from polluted water and radioactive waste. One would think that this would qualify them as inorganic Pokémon, but this is not the case. Muk and their pre-evolutions consist primarily of carbon-based compounds. Additionally, the spontaneous creation of life from radiation is highly unlikely; instead, the most supported scientific hypothesis purports that the radiation affected microscopic life already in the water. Though the vast majority of exposed organisms died, one significant mutation led to the rise of Grimer. Since they could reproduce asexually, the Pokémon quickly spread throughout polluted waterways.","Grimer appear to have mutated spontaneously from polluted water and radioactive waste. One would think that this would qualify them as inorganic Pokémon, but this is not the case. Muk and their pre-evolutions consist primarily of carbon-based compounds. Additionally, the spontaneous creation of life from radiation is highly unlikely; instead, the most supported scientific hypothesis purports that the radiation affected microscopic life already in the water. Though the vast majority of exposed organisms died, one significant mutation led to the rise of Grimer. Since they could reproduce asexually, the Pokémon quickly spread throughout polluted waterways.","Cloyster are classified as bivalves. They are the sole members of this class; while Clamperl was once placed in this group as well, their clearly piscine evolutions as well as the subsequent discovery that their shells evolved convergently led them to be moved into a separate phylum altogether. Another notable development in this line is the phenomenon in which Shellder lose their abilities to produce poison upon evolution into Cloyster. Since the poison is necessary to trigger the evolution of Slowpoke, Cloyster cannot parasitize them the same way their pre-evolutions can. This may be why they have developed superior hunting skills when compared to Shellder.","Cloyster are classified as bivalves. They are the sole members of this class; while Clamperl was once placed in this group as well, their clearly piscine evolutions as well as the subsequent discovery that their shells evolved convergently led them to be moved into a separate phylum altogether. Another notable development in this line is the phenomenon in which Shellder lose their abilities to produce poison upon evolution into Cloyster. Since the poison is necessary to trigger the evolution of Slowpoke, Cloyster cannot parasitize them the same way their pre-evolutions can. This may be why they have developed superior hunting skills when compared to Shellder.","Gengar are amorphous, gaseous Pokémon that are thought to be one of the simplest Ghost-types known to man. Though the relationship between the various spiritual Pokémon, if one exists at all, is largely unknown and still being researched, most scientists agree that if they were evolutionarily related to each other, Gengar would be one of the first diverging species. Without tangible or corporeal bodies, they seem to be held together by supernatural forces. Gastly in particular don’t even seem to have definitive silhouettes, making their very existence the subject of intensive study.","Gengar are amorphous, gaseous Pokémon that are thought to be one of the simplest Ghost-types known to man. Though the relationship between the various spiritual Pokémon, if one exists at all, is largely unknown and still being researched, most scientists agree that if they were evolutionarily related to each other, Gengar would be one of the first diverging species. Without tangible or corporeal bodies, they seem to be held together by supernatural forces. Gastly in particular don’t even seem to have definitive silhouettes, making their very existence the subject of intensive study.","Gengar are amorphous, gaseous Pokémon that are thought to be one of the simplest Ghost-types known to man. Though the relationship between the various spiritual Pokémon, if one exists at all, is largely unknown and still being researched, most scientists agree that if they were evolutionarily related to each other, Gengar would be one of the first diverging species. Without tangible or corporeal bodies, they seem to be held together by supernatural forces. Gastly in particular don’t even seem to have definitive silhouettes, making their very existence the subject of intensive study.","Onix are rock-based Pokémon, putting them in the same family as Golem and Probopass. Their evolution Steelix, however, have metallic bodies, leading many to question why they are not classified alongside the likes of Klinklang and Metagross. Research shows that the extreme density of Steelix results from the extreme pressure of their underground habitats alongside their lithophagous diets. Trained Onix will not evolve into Steelix without the use of the synthetic Metal Coat. Thus, although Onix are capable of evolving into the metallic Steelix, they are naturally born with rock-based bodies and are classified as such.","Drowzee clearly seem to be mammalian, and indeed are classified as ungulates. Hypno appear more humanlike and unsettling to some, but they still maintain the long noses and pointed ears that Drowzee have. It is no surprise that their closest relatives are Musharna, who are also Psychic-type, dream-eating ungulates. Despite how different they may seem physically, the two Pokémon are thought to have diverged very recently; they internal anatomy is strikingly similar, with some vital organs being in different positions to accommodate for their different body shapes.","Drowzee clearly seem to be mammalian, and indeed are classified as ungulates. Hypno appear more humanlike and unsettling to some, but they still maintain the long noses and pointed ears that Drowzee have. It is no surprise that their closest relatives are Musharna, who are also Psychic-type, dream-eating ungulates. Despite how different they may seem physically, the two Pokémon are thought to have diverged very recently; they internal anatomy is strikingly similar, with some vital organs being in different positions to accommodate for their different body shapes.","Kingler are marine crustaceans, and are one of the first Pokémon most people think of when they hear the word “crustacean.” Their most distinguishing feature is how one of their claws is much larger than the other. This is a characteristic that they share with their fellow crustacean Clawitzer. Given this fact as well as their shared marine habitats, most people understandably believe that the two Pokémon are close relatives. While this is true, Kingler are in fact even more closely related to Crustle and Crabominable; despite their contrasting habitats, the Pokémon share more in common with each other morphologically than Kingler do with Clawitzer.","Kingler are marine crustaceans, and are one of the first Pokémon most people think of when they hear the word “crustacean.” Their most distinguishing feature is how one of their claws is much larger than the other. This is a characteristic that they share with their fellow crustacean Clawitzer. Given this fact as well as their shared marine habitats, most people understandably believe that the two Pokémon are close relatives. While this is true, Kingler are in fact even more closely related to Crustle and Crabominable; despite their contrasting habitats, the Pokémon share more in common with each other morphologically than Kingler do with Clawitzer.","It is widely believed that Electrode are somehow connected with the beginning of mass-producing Poké Ball factories, since the two appeared alongside each other. As inorganic Pokémon, they are difficult to classify in phylogeny. As it stands, they are grouped alongside Magnezone as electricity-producing, non-carbon-based Pokémon. This classification is more of a formality so that Electrode belong to a group at all, since despite most people accepting it to be true, there has yet to be formal research confirming that the Pokémon indeed originated in some way from Poké Balls.","It is widely believed that Electrode are somehow connected with the beginning of mass-producing Poké Ball factories, since the two appeared alongside each other. As inorganic Pokémon, they are difficult to classify in phylogeny. As it stands, they are grouped alongside Magnezone as electricity-producing, non-carbon-based Pokémon. This classification is more of a formality so that Electrode belong to a group at all, since despite most people accepting it to be true, there has yet to be formal research confirming that the Pokémon indeed originated in some way from Poké Balls.","Though they may look like eggs, Exeggcute are in fact seeds. Exeggutor are monocots, placing them in the same group as Lilligant. They are believed to be very similar to ancient Grass-type Pokémon; DNA analysis shows many similarities between them and true plants. Compared to other plantlike Pokémon, they are relatively simple in terms of physiology and anatomy. Their psychic abilities appear to be a relatively recent development, however. Researchers believe that they may have arisen around the same time Exeggutor evolved their polycephaly, perhaps as a way to allow the heads to communicate with each other through telepathy.","Though they may look like eggs, Exeggcute are in fact seeds. Exeggutor are monocots, placing them in the same group as Lilligant. They are believed to be very similar to ancient Grass-type Pokémon; DNA analysis shows many similarities between them and true plants. Compared to other plantlike Pokémon, they are relatively simple in terms of physiology and anatomy. Their psychic abilities appear to be a relatively recent development, however. Researchers believe that they may have arisen around the same time Exeggutor evolved their polycephaly, perhaps as a way to allow the heads to communicate with each other through telepathy.","Marowak seem to be mammalian, though their exact classification was a mystery for a long time. Since these Pokémon actively avoid contact with people, little was known about their lifestyles and development. In ancient times, people believed that Cubone were in fact the children of Kangaskhan whose mothers will killed during childbirth. While this urban legend isn’t false, there is a kernel of truth in the statement; According to DNA sequencing, Kangaskhan are in fact the Marowak’s closest living relatives, who are now classified as marsupials. They have lost their pouches over time, an adaptation that may have to do with their odd treatment of their offspring.","Marowak seem to be mammalian, though their exact classification was a mystery for a long time. Since these Pokémon actively avoid contact with people, little was known about their lifestyles and development. In ancient times, people believed that Cubone were in fact the children of Kangaskhan whose mothers will killed during childbirth. While this urban legend isn’t false, there is a kernel of truth in the statement; According to DNA sequencing, Kangaskhan are in fact the Marowak’s closest living relatives, who are now classified as marsupials. They have lost their pouches over time, an adaptation that may have to do with their odd treatment of their offspring.","The Tyrogue line is undisputedly humanoid, sharing a similar morphology to humans. They also seem to support the trend of humanoids sporting either Psychic- or Fighting-typings (in this case the latter), a phenomenon that is being intensely researched today in hopes of establishing a true link between people and Pokémon. The characteristic adaptation of this line appears to be the unique structure of their limbs, which allow them to throw out punches and kicks farther than they may appear to be able to. Tyrogue’s evolution appear to be directly connected to how the Pokémon train, with different fighting styles triggering different evolution-inducing hormones.","The Tyrogue line is undisputedly humanoid, sharing a similar morphology to humans. They also seem to support the trend of humanoids sporting either Psychic- or Fighting-typings (in this case the latter), a phenomenon that is being intensely researched today in hopes of establishing a true link between people and Pokémon. The characteristic adaptation of this line appears to be the unique structure of their limbs, which allow them to throw out punches and kicks farther than they may appear to be able to. Tyrogue’s evolution appear to be directly connected to how the Pokémon train, with different fighting styles triggering different evolution-inducing hormones.","The Lickitung family was traditionally classified as a mammal due to its general body physiology. Though some scientists speculated that they were perhaps amphibious or reptilian because of their long tongues, few bothered to conduct much research on them; the line has up until recently been woefully neglected by researchers for unknown reasons. Newer studies strongly suggest that they are in fact reptilian, however. Their skulls are clearly diapsid in nature, a distinctly reptilian trait (in addition to their tongues and tails). Their mammalian physiques likely result from their copious adipose tissue, a trait they oddly share with fellow pudgy squamatan Magmortar.","Weezing appear to be sentient, floating spheres of noxious gases, making them difficult to classify. However, it is known that their thin skin consists of cells unlike that of animal cells. They have cell walls that contain chitin, a trait that is exclusive to the fungal kingdom. For this reason, Weezing are placed alongside Pokémon like Breloom and Amoonguss. Thought to be the simplest organisms in this group, their toxic gas is believed to have been an evolutionary adaptation that turned their waste products into a weapon they could use against predators. Their thin, light skin enables them to float freely above the ground thanks to their buoyant gases.","Weezing appear to be sentient, floating spheres of noxious gases, making them difficult to classify. However, it is known that their thin skin consists of cells unlike that of animal cells. They have cell walls that contain chitin, a trait that is exclusive to the fungal kingdom. For this reason, Weezing are placed alongside Pokémon like Breloom and Amoonguss. Thought to be the simplest organisms in this group, their toxic gas is believed to have been an evolutionary adaptation that turned their waste products into a weapon they could use against predators. Their thin, light skin enables them to float freely above the ground thanks to their buoyant gases.","The Rhyhorn family are classic examples of ungulates, particularly of perissodactyls like Hypno, Zebstrika, and Rapidash. Alongside Drowzee, Mareep, and Tepig (as well as potentially Spoink, though because of its unique form of locomotion this is debatable), Rhyhorn are among the minority of ungulates that become bipedal upon evolution; this chance in stance also comes with an increase in intelligence, a trend observed across multiple orders of Pokémon. Their characteristically thick and sturdy armor evolved to protect these sluggish, large herbivores from predators, much like the skin of their relative Donphan.","The Rhyhorn family are classic examples of ungulates, particularly of perissodactyls like Hypno, Zebstrika, and Rapidash. Alongside Drowzee, Mareep, and Tepig (as well as potentially Spoink, though because of its unique form of locomotion this is debatable), Rhyhorn are among the minority of ungulates that become bipedal upon evolution; this chance in stance also comes with an increase in intelligence, a trend observed across multiple orders of Pokémon. Their characteristically thick and sturdy armor evolved to protect these sluggish, large herbivores from predators, much like the skin of their relative Donphan.","The Happiny family is the one of two known extant lines of an order of mammals known as monotremes, alongside Golduck. This group is unique in that, unlike all other mammals, its members lay eggs instead of giving birth to live young under normal environmental conditions (all Pokémon that can reproduce in captivity will do so via eggs, a basal trait activated when normal mating conditions are not fulfilled). These Pokémon will lay sterile eggs even when not mating; these eggs are famously delicious and high in nutrients. The behavior of wild individuals has not been well-studied, as these Pokémon are rarely sighted and are quick to flee.","It is difficult to classify the Tangela line because no one has figured out what lies beneath the masses of vines that cover the Pokémon. From research done on vines that have snapped off of these Pokémon, it appears that they share an evolutionary relationship with seaweed and other forms of algae. However, DNA evidence also has revealed unexpressed genes that are identical to that of flowering plants, with similarities far closer than they share with algae. For this reason, despite carrying traits with both groups, they are classified as asterids alongside other flowering Pokémon like Sunflora; more research needs to be conducted in order to cement this placing.","Kangaskhan, as indicated by the pouches on their bellies, are marsupials. They, Komala, and Marowak are the only members of this group, which is thought to be more primitive than the larger group of placental mammals. Ironically, despite marsupials being characterized by their possessions of pouches for carrying their young, Kangaskhan are the only extant members that actually possess them (Marowak and Komala have lost their pouches over time). The process of imprinting between an infant Kangaskhan and its mother is currently being closely studied to discern the development of neural connections in young Pokémon.","Though they do not resemble them superficially, members of the Horsea line are classified as ray-finned fishes. It is no surprise that their closest relative is Dragalge, who share their characteristic upright posture. Genetic research on this line has revealed that Horsea and Seadra have dormant genes characteristic of Dragon-type Pokémon (as well as portions of DNA coding for the Poison-typing, though they lack complete genes; these sequences are inexplicably only expressed in Seadra). These genes activate when Seadra are exposed to Dragon Scales, trigger their evolutions into Kingdra. They were the first Pokémon in which this type of genetic expression was observed.","Though they do not resemble them superficially, members of the Horsea line are classified as ray-finned fishes. It is no surprise that their closest relative is Dragalge, who share their characteristic upright posture. Genetic research on this line has revealed that Horsea and Seadra have dormant genes characteristic of Dragon-type Pokémon (as well as portions of DNA coding for the Poison-typing, though they lack complete genes; these sequences are inexplicably only expressed in Seadra). These genes activate when Seadra are exposed to Dragon Scales, trigger their evolutions into Kingdra. They were the first Pokémon in which this type of genetic expression was observed.","Seaking are bony fishes. They are very closely related to Gyarados, though the two Pokémon hardly resemble each other at all. Their common predecessor is believed to have been oceanic and much stronger than either of its descendants. Goldeen are thought to have adapted their trademark horns and vibrant colorations through sexual selection. It is unknown why the species are exclusively freshwater, but some scientists have hypothesized a catastrophic marine event that only allowed individuals living in secluded ponds and lakes to survive, eventually becoming Goldeen (Magikarp likely traded their strength for hardiness due to this event as well).","Seaking are bony fishes. They are very closely related to Gyarados, though the two Pokémon hardly resemble each other at all. Their common predecessor is believed to have been oceanic and much stronger than either of its descendants. Goldeen are thought to have adapted their trademark horns and vibrant colorations through sexual selection. It is unknown why the species are exclusively freshwater, but some scientists have hypothesized a catastrophic marine event that only allowed individuals living in secluded ponds and lakes to survive, eventually becoming Goldeen (Magikarp likely traded their strength for hardiness due to this event as well).","Contrary to popular belief, it is unlikely that Starmie are extraterrestrials. They are the only extant echinoderms alongside Pyukumuku and Toxapex known so far (though Cradily have successfully been resurrected), characterized by their radial symmetry. Echinoderms like Starmie are also notable for being the only invertebrates that are also deuterostomes, meaning that their digestive tracts develop mouth-second, like vertebrates. Though they appear to be inorganic minerals like garnet or ruby, the gems in the centers of these Pokémon are in fact created out of a material similar to the substance that Clamperl pearls are composed of.","Contrary to popular belief, it is unlikely that Starmie are extraterrestrials. They are the only extant echinoderms alongside Pyukumuku and Toxapex known so far (though Cradily have successfully been resurrected), characterized by their radial symmetry. Echinoderms like Starmie are also notable for being the only invertebrates that are also deuterostomes, meaning that their digestive tracts develop mouth-second, like vertebrates. Though they appear to be inorganic minerals like garnet or ruby, the gems in the centers of these Pokémon are in fact created out of a material similar to the substance that Clamperl pearls are composed of.","Many people find Mr. Mime to be deeply unsettling because of how humanoid, but not quite human, they look. Researchers agree that they are likely the closest link between people and Pokémon, citing support such as: their similar physiology, their great intellect, their affinities for towns and cities, their distinctly human-like skin, and their near-identical brain structures. The physical differences between people and Mr. Mime can largely be attributed to two primary differences. Firstly, these Pokémon store fat entirely in their torsos, giving them very slender limbs. Secondly, their joints are all synovial, allowing them to bend at odd, sometimes disturbing angles.","As their Bug-typings might suggest, members of the Scyther line are insects. They are very close relatives with Leavanny, who share the blade-like arms of Scyther (though their dispositions starkly contrast one another). This line is also believed to related to Kricketune, as their wings develop internally as opposed to externally like other insects. The evolution from Scyther to Scizor is believed to be one of the most drastic known so far. Scyther are swift and speedy pack hunters capable of flight, while Scizor are sturdy but slower solitary predators that are confined to the ground; the two don’t even seem to recognize each other as the same species in the wild.","Jynx are distinctly humanoid, sometimes even being mistaken for people from behind. Because they are so elusive, they are difficult subjects for scientists to research in the wild. No one is quite sure what Jynx conceal beneath their billowing “dresses”; they leave no footprints behind as they walk, though some believe that they may simply be using their psychic powers to levitate. Both Smoochum and Jynx have very thin skin that makes them susceptible to changes in atmospheric humidity. Their skin is particularly fragile around their lips, which also have a large number of nerve endings. ","The Elekid line are classified as primates, specifically as apes because of the lumbering body structure of Electivire. They share this trait with Darmanitan and Rillaboom, their fellow apes and closest relatives. Though primates have a reputation for being unusually intelligent, the Elekid line seems to display average intellect for Pokémon; the more agile primates, like Ambipom, Infernape, the Simi monkeys, and especially Oranguru fit this perception more than Electivire. Despite this, the ratio of their brain mass to body mass is noticeably larger than that of other Pokémon, a trait indicative of all species classified as primates.","The Magby line was an enigma to scientists; Magmar (the most common member of the lien in the wild) had a Psyduck’s bill but a Charmeleon’s tail, leading to some conclusion regarding its classification. Subsequent studies on the Pokémon along with its evolutions brought evidence that they were definitively reptilian, albeit with large deposits of adipose tissue that gave them their stocky builds. They share this trait with Lickilicky, who also confused researchers because of its odd body shape. Because of their curious behavior regarding volcanoes, scientists are looking into studying the behavior of Magby in order to predict volcanic eruptions.","Pinsir are clearly coleopterans. Though they seem to lack the wings that other Pokémon in this order like Ledian possess, they do in fact sport a rudimentary pair. Their elytra have fused together to form solid armor-like platings however, rendering the weak wings within useless (though the vestigial wings would not be strong enough to allow them to fly, anyways). Mega-Evolution splits the fused elytra and strengthens the wings enough to allow these Pokémon to fly. Pinsir are very close cousins of Vikavolt, though they are more commonly associated with Heracross. The two Pokémon are often depicted as a duo in popular media.","The distant ancestors of Tauros once ruled the Kanto region. With the advent of humans, though, these wild Pokémon slowly became domesticated as cattle, leaving only pockets of wild populations. Alola is thought to be the first region to domesticate Tauros. Despite the tamed cattle being weaker in virtually all respects, they outnumbered wild Tauros and easily outcompeted them for grazing land. At one point, wild Tauros were on the brink of extinction. Luckily, advances in agriculture allowed farmers to make greater use of their land and slowed their expansion, allowing populations to recover. However, even today, they remain only a shadow of their former glory.","Gyarados are thought to be rather ancient Pokémon, having changed little over the centuries. Their closest relatives are believed to be Seaking, fellow bony fishes that they are thought to share a common ancestor with. Fossil evidence shows that the famously weak Magikarp in fact may have been far more powerful in the past, with strength fitting of Pokémon that evolve into vicious Gyarados. It is thought that a catastrophic ocean event led to the selection of hardy but weak Magikarp over less resilient but stronger ones. Gyarados lay many, many eggs, so that even if the majority of their offspring die off, their genes would still carry on to the next generation.","Gyarados are thought to be rather ancient Pokémon, having changed little over the centuries. Their closest relatives are believed to be Seaking, fellow bony fishes that they are thought to share a common ancestor with. Fossil evidence shows that the famously weak Magikarp in fact may have been far more powerful in the past, with strength fitting of Pokémon that evolve into vicious Gyarados. It is thought that a catastrophic ocean event led to the selection of hardy but weak Magikarp over less resilient but stronger ones. Gyarados lay many, many eggs, so that even if the majority of their offspring die off, their genes would still carry on to the next generation.","Being reptilian Pokémon that have emerged from a lineage millions of years old, many people believe that Lapras are saurians like Meganium or Tyrantrum. However, they are actually a separate order entirely, thought to have evolved from a group of primitive, terrestrial reptiles that returned to the sea. The size and the barrenness of the polar habitats of these Pokémon were the main factors that allowed them to survive for so long despite being so gentle. Because they only give birth to one offspring at a time and their said offspring take years to mature, conservation efforts regarding this Pokémon are slow (though they have been notably successful in Alola).","Ditto are odd Pokémon. They consist of nothing more than a blob of cells; however, what makes them special is the abilities of their cells to differentiate into anything, organic or inorganic (the latter of which baffles scientists even to this day). There are two competing theories as to how they arose. One postulates that Ditto branched off from the very beginning of all life, possessing the simplest cell structure with two simple mutations: the process of cell division, and the lack of permanent cell differentiation. The other is similar, hypothesizing that Ditto may have sprung from failed experiments regarding Mew, who is thought to be the “ancestor of all Pokémon.”","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Silph Co. created the first artificial Pokémon, Porygon, in the late 1990s, and issued its upgrade, Porygon2, at the turn of the century. Porygon-Z was an unauthorized update created by an unknown group of hackers. Some people believe that Team Galactic created the patch while perfecting interdimensional travel, while others think that Team Plasma scientist Colress covertly created Porygon-Z at the P2 Laboratory in Unova. Though owning a Porygon-Z is technically illegal, the Pokémon has become so famous (including a starring role in a popular video game as a corrupt research facility AI) that Silph Co. has ceased taking action against its owners.","Scientists believe that Omastar were among the most intelligent Pokémon in prehistoric times. This is supported by the fact that their modern ancestors, cephalopods like Octillery and Malamar, are also notoriously clever. These Pokémon are also notable for being the only cephalopods with shells, a trait that is present in some gastropods like Shelmet and Macargo. The spiral designs of their shells are characteristic of the fossils that these Pokémon can be revived from (hence why they are called “Helix Fossils”), and have been used throughout history as symbols of enlightenment.","Scientists believe that Omastar were among the most intelligent Pokémon in prehistoric times. This is supported by the fact that their modern ancestors, cephalopods like Octillery and Malamar, are also notoriously clever. These Pokémon are also notable for being the only cephalopods with shells, a trait that is present in some gastropods like Shelmet and Macargo. The spiral designs of their shells are characteristic of the fossils that these Pokémon can be revived from (hence why they are called “Helix Fossils”), and have been used throughout history as symbols of enlightenment.","Kabutops are arthropods, and are the only member of their order to have been successfully revived. Though they are related to both insects and crustaceans, they are grouped separately from both. One of their most amazing characteristics is their possession of lungs; though dissimilar to vertebrate lungs and rather inefficient, they are one of few known invertebrates that have developed complex organs for breathing rather than networks of tubes. These lungs allowed Kabutops to be among the first terrestrial hunters, thriving as apex predators for a long period of time before eventually being starved to extinction during a global fluctuation of temperatures.","Kabutops are arthropods, and are the only member of their order to have been successfully revived. Though they are related to both insects and crustaceans, they are grouped separately from both. One of their most amazing characteristics is their possession of lungs; though dissimilar to vertebrate lungs and rather inefficient, they are one of few known invertebrates that have developed complex organs for breathing rather than networks of tubes. These lungs allowed Kabutops to be among the first terrestrial hunters, thriving as apex predators for a long period of time before eventually being starved to extinction during a global fluctuation of temperatures.","Contrary to popular belief, Aerodactyl are not saurians. Instead, they are placed in their own entire order, thought to have descended independently from other ancient reptiles. Another common piece of misinformation regarding these Pokémon is that they are related to Archeops, and by extension, are the ancestors of modern avian Pokémon. This is not, true, either; the advent of flight in Aerodactyl and Archeops more than likely occurred independently, especially considering how Aerodactyl have membraned wings while Archeops have feathered ones. Aerodactyl is no more related to today’s birds than other reptiles like Rampardos or Aurorus.","It may be physically difficult to discern exactly what Snorlax are because of the large amounts of fat concealing most of their features. However, from skeletal and physiological examinations, it is clear that these Pokémon are ursines, related to the likes of Ursaring and Beartic. It is notable that the members of this family hibernate, sleeping throughout the winter while living off of energy reserves gathered prior to their dormancy. Many scientists believe that the lengthy sleeping and eating patterns of Snorlax is the result of the trigger for their hibernation somehow being left perpetually in the “on” position.","","","","Dragonite are classified as serpents despite the fact that they have limbs; the reasoning behind this choice is readily apparent when one looks at both Dratini and Dragonair. Though the serpents have lost their limbs through evolution, they still maintain vestigial traces of the structures. This is most apparent when one looks at the Snivy line, which serves as a counterpart to the Dratini line in that it loses its limbs as it evolves rather than gaining them. Seeing how Dragonite appear distinctly draconian, it is thought that when Dragonair evolve, a number of different primal, reptilian genes trigger the growth of their limbs and wings.","Dragonite are classified as serpents despite the fact that they have limbs; the reasoning behind this choice is readily apparent when one looks at both Dratini and Dragonair. Though the serpents have lost their limbs through evolution, they still maintain vestigial traces of the structures. This is most apparent when one looks at the Snivy line, which serves as a counterpart to the Dratini line in that it loses its limbs as it evolves rather than gaining them. Seeing how Dragonite appear distinctly draconian, it is thought that when Dragonair evolve, a number of different primal, reptilian genes trigger the growth of their limbs and wings.","Dragonite are classified as serpents despite the fact that they have limbs; the reasoning behind this choice is readily apparent when one looks at both Dratini and Dragonair. Though the serpents have lost their limbs through evolution, they still maintain vestigial traces of the structures. This is most apparent when one looks at the Snivy line, which serves as a counterpart to the Dratini line in that it loses its limbs as it evolves rather than gaining them. Seeing how Dragonite appear distinctly draconian, it is thought that when Dragonair evolve, a number of different primal, reptilian genes trigger the growth of their limbs and wings.","","","Meganium are the prototypical example of a sauropod; long-necked, quadrupedal, and herbivorous, these slow-moving saurians are very docile compared to the more aggressive theropods. Members of the Chikorita line are famed for their aromatherapeutic qualities. Extractions from their leaves and flowers have been used in the production of perfumes and essential oils. While Chikorita’s smell has been described, unsurprisingly, as “floral” and “grassy,” Bayleef’s has been compared to the aromas of rosemary and camphor. Meganium have the ability to produce both of their pre-evolutions’ scents alongside a multitude of others from their large flowers.","Meganium are the prototypical example of a sauropod; long-necked, quadrupedal, and herbivorous, these slow-moving saurians are very docile compared to the more aggressive theropods. Members of the Chikorita line are famed for their aromatherapeutic qualities. Extractions from their leaves and flowers have been used in the production of perfumes and essential oils. While Chikorita’s smell has been described, unsurprisingly, as “floral” and “grassy,” Bayleef’s has been compared to the aromas of rosemary and camphor. Meganium have the ability to produce both of their pre-evolutions’ scents alongside a multitude of others from their large flowers.","Meganium are the prototypical example of a sauropod; long-necked, quadrupedal, and herbivorous, these slow-moving saurians are very docile compared to the more aggressive theropods. Members of the Chikorita line are famed for their aromatherapeutic qualities. Extractions from their leaves and flowers have been used in the production of perfumes and essential oils. While Chikorita’s smell has been described, unsurprisingly, as “floral” and “grassy,” Bayleef’s has been compared to the aromas of rosemary and camphor. Meganium have the ability to produce both of their pre-evolutions’ scents alongside a multitude of others from their large flowers.","The Cyndaquil family is classified as a mustelid. Its closest relatives are thought to be Meinshao and Furret, with Weavile and Floatzel being more distant, though still in the same family. The mustelids are distinct in undergoing embryonic diapause, in which they can “pause” the development of their offspring in the womb until environmental conditions become more favorable. Timid Cyndaquil undergo a radical change in temperament as they evolve into the irate Typhlosion; it has been researched that Typhlosion that can produce larger bursts of flames are also more aggressive, possibly signaling a chemical connection between firepower and temperament.","The Cyndaquil family is classified as a mustelid. Its closest relatives are thought to be Meinshao and Furret, with Weavile and Floatzel being more distant, though still in the same family. The mustelids are distinct in undergoing embryonic diapause, in which they can “pause” the development of their offspring in the womb until environmental conditions become more favorable. Timid Cyndaquil undergo a radical change in temperament as they evolve into the irate Typhlosion; it has been researched that Typhlosion that can produce larger bursts of flames are also more aggressive, possibly signaling a chemical connection between firepower and temperament.","The Cyndaquil family is classified as a mustelid. Its closest relatives are thought to be Meinshao and Furret, with Weavile and Floatzel being more distant, though still in the same family. The mustelids are distinct in undergoing embryonic diapause, in which they can “pause” the development of their offspring in the womb until environmental conditions become more favorable. Timid Cyndaquil undergo a radical change in temperament as they evolve into the irate Typhlosion; it has been researched that Typhlosion that can produce larger bursts of flames are also more aggressive, possibly signaling a chemical connection between firepower and temperament.","Feraligatr are one of two known extant crocodilians, which are a primitive order of diapsid reptiles. Their closest relative is Krookodile; though physiologically similar, the two belong to different families, of which they are each the only surviving members of. The two groups are most easily distinguished by their snout shape, with Feraligatr’s family having narrower snouts. The crocodilians are notable for being more closely related to saurians than to other reptiles. Feraligatr’s ancestors were thought to have been alive alongside extinct Pokémon like Cranidos and Tirtouga, closely resembling the crocodilians we have today.","Feraligatr are one of two known extant crocodilians, which are a primitive order of diapsid reptiles. Their closest relative is Krookodile; though physiologically similar, the two belong to different families, of which they are each the only surviving members of. The two groups are most easily distinguished by their snout shape, with Feraligatr’s family having narrower snouts. The crocodilians are notable for being more closely related to saurians than to other reptiles. Feraligatr’s ancestors were thought to have been alive alongside extinct Pokémon like Cranidos and Tirtouga, closely resembling the crocodilians we have today.","Feraligatr are one of two known extant crocodilians, which are a primitive order of diapsid reptiles. Their closest relative is Krookodile; though physiologically similar, the two belong to different families, of which they are each the only surviving members of. The two groups are most easily distinguished by their snout shape, with Feraligatr’s family having narrower snouts. The crocodilians are notable for being more closely related to saurians than to other reptiles. Feraligatr’s ancestors were thought to have been alive alongside extinct Pokémon like Cranidos and Tirtouga, closely resembling the crocodilians we have today.","Furret are classic examples of mustelids, with their closest relative being Meinshao. Their docile demeanors distinguish them from their more aggressive relatives, such as Typhlosion and Weavile. They are thought to have evolved their long bodies in order easily and swiftly enter and exit their underground burrows to escape predators. Sentret are notable for their unique social structure. Though many Pokémon exhibit similar behavior, Sentret are notable for being altruistic while doing so; similar to the unrelated Patrat, guarding Sentret will call loudly and place themselves on higher ground to attract threats to themselves and allow their allies to hide and retreat.","Furret are classic examples of mustelids, with their closest relative being Meinshao. Their docile demeanors distinguish them from their more aggressive relatives, such as Typhlosion and Weavile. They are thought to have evolved their long bodies in order easily and swiftly enter and exit their underground burrows to escape predators. Sentret are notable for their unique social structure. Though many Pokémon exhibit similar behavior, Sentret are notable for being altruistic while doing so; similar to the unrelated Patrat, guarding Sentret will call loudly and place themselves on higher ground to attract threats to themselves and allow their allies to hide and retreat.","Noctowl are avians in the order Strigiformes alongside Decidueye and Aromatisse. They are the sole order of nocturnal birds of prey; though often depicted alongside the diurnal birds of prey like Pidgeot and Staraptor in Johto and Sinnoh works, representing knowledge and cunning, other regions delegate this role to Mandibuzz instead. Their ability to learn a variety of Psychic-type moves, along with their purported penchants for clairvoyance, have led many to wonder why they are not Psychic-types. While the significance of this fact is unknown, it should be noted that Noctowl are the closest known relatives of the true Psychic-type Xatu.","Noctowl are avians in the order Strigiformes alongside Decidueye and Aromatisse. They are the sole order of nocturnal birds of prey; though often depicted alongside the diurnal birds of prey like Pidgeot and Staraptor in Johto and Sinnoh works, representing knowledge and cunning, other regions delegate this role to Mandibuzz instead. Their ability to learn a variety of Psychic-type moves, along with their purported penchants for clairvoyance, have led many to wonder why they are not Psychic-types. While the significance of this fact is unknown, it should be noted that Noctowl are the closest known relatives of the true Psychic-type Xatu.","Ledian are the the coleopterans with the most easily distinguishable elytra (other than arguably Heracross during flight), and for this reason are commonly used to symbolize this order; they are also more charismatic than their close relatives Orbeetle. Ledyba are among the most beloved insects in the world, due to their docile natures and integral role as pollinators both in nature as well as in the agricultural industry. The powder that Ledian scatter at night seems to serve no known purpose. It is composed primarily of chitin, like the scales of Dustox and Vivillon, but is structured differently from the powder they shed and does not carry the same effects--or any noticeable effects at all, to be precise.","Ledian are the the coleopterans with the most easily distinguishable elytra (other than arguably Heracross during flight), and for this reason are commonly used to symbolize this order; they are also more charismatic than their close relatives Orbeetle. Ledyba are among the most beloved insects in the world, due to their docile natures and integral role as pollinators both in nature as well as in the agricultural industry. The powder that Ledian scatter at night seems to serve no known purpose. It is composed primarily of chitin, like the scales of Dustox and Vivillon, but is structured differently from the powder they shed and does not carry the same effects--or any noticeable effects at all, to be precise.","Members of the Spinarak line are arthropods, specifically arachnids. One of their defining features is their unique jaw structures, referred to as chelicerae. As one may guess, their closest relatives are Galvantula and Araquanid, who have similar body structures. Though it is arguable whether Ariados or Drapion have the strongest venom of the arachnids, most researchers agree that Ariados has the fastest-acting one, capable of killing an adult human in as little as two minutes (Drapion also prefer to disable prey with brute force and rarely use their venom at all). Their strong silk has been intensely researched for potential applications in various fields of science.","Members of the Spinarak line are arthropods, specifically arachnids. One of their defining features is their unique jaw structures, referred to as chelicerae. As one may guess, their closest relatives are Galvantula and Araquanid, who have similar body structures. Though it is arguable whether Ariados or Drapion have the strongest venom of the arachnids, most researchers agree that Ariados has the fastest-acting one, capable of killing an adult human in as little as two minutes (Drapion also prefer to disable prey with brute force and rarely use their venom at all). Their strong silk has been intensely researched for potential applications in various fields of science.","Though all members of the Zubat line possess wings and are capable of flight, they are not birds. These Pokémon are in fact mammals, belonging to the order Chiroptera. Alongside their brethren Noivern and Swoobat, they are the only known mammals with wings. Zubat in particular are notable for being troglobites, having lost their eyes and noses to adapt to life in complete darkness; they rely on echolocation to navigate. Though both Golbat and Crobat possess eyes, these organs are weak and function primarily as light detectors, so they still rely on their senses of sound when flying about.","Lanturn are bony, ray-finned fish most famous for their bioluminescent capabilities. Though they may appear to lack dorsal fins, their glowing lures are in fact modified dorsal rays. Chinchou also possess the ability to walk on the sea floor with their feet-like dorsal fins. They share this trait with Lumineon, another bony fish that dwells at the bottom of the sea. Chinchou also use these modified fins to trek onto land while mating. They can stay out of the water as long as their skin remains moist, and are better terrestrial travelers than some other amphibious Pokémon like Poliwag. Their eggs incubate while hidden in the sand from predators.","Lanturn are bony, ray-finned fish most famous for their bioluminescent capabilities. Though they may appear to lack dorsal fins, their glowing lures are in fact modified dorsal rays. Chinchou also possess the ability to walk on the sea floor with their feet-like dorsal fins. They share this trait with Lumineon, another bony fish that dwells at the bottom of the sea. Chinchou also use these modified fins to trek onto land while mating. They can stay out of the water as long as their skin remains moist, and are better terrestrial travelers than some other amphibious Pokémon like Poliwag. Their eggs incubate while hidden in the sand from predators.","Pichu are exceedingly rare in Kanto, especially considering that Pikachu are already rather uncommon and Raichu are even more elusive. Though slightly more common in Johto, they still are by no means abundant Pokémon. These Pokémon are most closely related to Plusle and Minun; although many people believe that they are related to Azumarill, the two Pokémon are in fact not even in the same order. Likely because Raichu are even rarer than Pikachu, in a recent poll conducted by the Unova branch of the Pokémon Fan Club, 45% of the people surveyed were unaware that Pikachu evolved at all.","Cleffa and their evolutions are one of the most elusive Pokémon known to man, other than legendary Pokémon. For this reason, many people thought they were a myth up until recent times. Even now, the Cleffa line is a conundrum to modern phylogenetics. Traditionally, they were thought to be most closely related to Wigglytuff. However, a quickly growing sect of scientists, including nearly all of the researchers stationed at Mt. Moon (where Clefairy are most abundant), have lent their support to the idea that they are in fact extraterrestrial Pokémon with no evolutionary connections to any other worldly Pokémon.","Wigglytuff are lagomorphs, and are thought to be most closely related to the Pokémon Azumarill. Both Pokémon share the characteristics of long ears and rotund bodies. However, while Azumarill and their pre-evolutions have developed oil sacs attached to their bodies like tails to stay afloat in the water, Wigglytuff and their pre-evolutions have evolved air sacs within their bodies to float about in the winds. Interestingly, both of these adaptations serve similar purposes, only in different mediums. The singing ability of this line appears to be a secondary development as a byproduct of their huge air sacs.","Togekiss are thought to be a relatively primitive species of birds, notably lacking the talons present in the vast majority of other species. Their thick layers of feathers and adipose tissues give them their distinctively plump shape. Togepi have been intensely researched in order to learn more about maternal imprinting, particularly for applications in the upbringings of other children and young Pokémon. Meanwhile, Togetic’s joy dust is being tested for use as an antidepressant. Togekiss are heralded as symbols of world peace and have historically been a common mascot of many nonviolent protest organizations.","Togekiss are thought to be a relatively primitive species of birds, notably lacking the talons present in the vast majority of other species. Their thick layers of feathers and adipose tissues give them their distinctively plump shape. Togepi have been intensely researched in order to learn more about maternal imprinting, particularly for applications in the upbringings of other children and young Pokémon. Meanwhile, Togetic’s joy dust is being tested for use as an antidepressant. Togekiss are heralded as symbols of world peace and have historically been a common mascot of many nonviolent protest organizations.","Xatu are avians that hold an entire order to themselves; their closest extant relative is Noctowl, who they share many similarities with. Though Noctowl are a temperate species while Xatu are a tropical one, both play large roles in their regions’ cultures and are purported be clairvoyant. Additionally, their pre-evolutions share an odd tendency to not blink, perhaps an adaptation to unnerve larger predators when in large flocks. The accuracy of prophet-aided Xatu auguries is debatable. Every Xatu prophet seems to interpret the same message differently; however, it should be noted that different Xatu tend to respond to questions with the same sequence of wing patterns.","Xatu are avians that hold an entire order to themselves; their closest extant relative is Noctowl, who they share many similarities with. Though Noctowl are a temperate species while Xatu are a tropical one, both play large roles in their regions’ cultures and are purported be clairvoyant. Additionally, their pre-evolutions share an odd tendency to not blink, perhaps an adaptation to unnerve larger predators when in large flocks. The accuracy of prophet-aided Xatu auguries is debatable. Every Xatu prophet seems to interpret the same message differently; however, it should be noted that different Xatu tend to respond to questions with the same sequence of wing patterns.","Ampharos are bovids that are very closely related to Dubwool and Gogoat, domesticated Pokémon also very commonly seen on farms and ranches. Mareep steadily lose their wool as they evolve; the wool is thought to function like “training wheels” for them, helping them generate electricity until they are able to do so on their own. Because of this, however, Ampharos are not very useful in the commercial production of wool. Their comfort around humans due to being domesticated, though, make them very useful in lighthouses; one of the greatest pieces of modern Unovan literature featured a lighthouse Ampharos with a green tail, a literary symbol now recognized worldwide.","Ampharos are bovids that are very closely related to Dubwool and Gogoat, domesticated Pokémon also very commonly seen on farms and ranches. Mareep steadily lose their wool as they evolve; the wool is thought to function like “training wheels” for them, helping them generate electricity until they are able to do so on their own. Because of this, however, Ampharos are not very useful in the commercial production of wool. Their comfort around humans due to being domesticated, though, make them very useful in lighthouses; one of the greatest pieces of modern Unovan literature featured a lighthouse Ampharos with a green tail, a literary symbol now recognized worldwide.","Ampharos are bovids that are very closely related to Dubwool and Gogoat, domesticated Pokémon also very commonly seen on farms and ranches. Mareep steadily lose their wool as they evolve; the wool is thought to function like “training wheels” for them, helping them generate electricity until they are able to do so on their own. Because of this, however, Ampharos are not very useful in the commercial production of wool. Their comfort around humans due to being domesticated, though, make them very useful in lighthouses; one of the greatest pieces of modern Unovan literature featured a lighthouse Ampharos with a green tail, a literary symbol now recognized worldwide.","Ampharos are bovids that are very closely related to Dubwool and Gogoat, domesticated Pokémon also very commonly seen on farms and ranches. Mareep steadily lose their wool as they evolve; the wool is thought to function like “training wheels” for them, helping them generate electricity until they are able to do so on their own. Because of this, however, Ampharos are not very useful in the commercial production of wool. Their comfort around humans due to being domesticated, though, make them very useful in lighthouses; one of the greatest pieces of modern Unovan literature featured a lighthouse Ampharos with a green tail, a literary symbol now recognized worldwide.","Azumarill are lagomorphs most closely related to Wigglytuff and Lopunny. Whereas the Igglybuff has air sacs that allow them to inflate, the Azumarill line (in addition to strong lungs) also has oil sacs that aid them in swimming. Azurill are the only known Pokémon to undergo protogyny, a bizarre phenomenon in which a third of female Azurill become male upon evolution. Since Azurill themselves are unable to breed, researchers have ruled out reproductive benefits for such an adaptation. The current theory suggests that this occurrence may simply be due to a mutated sex allele in some female Azurill that would normally make them male but is not expressed until evolution.","Azumarill are lagomorphs most closely related to Wigglytuff and Lopunny. Whereas the Igglybuff has air sacs that allow them to inflate, the Azumarill line (in addition to strong lungs) also has oil sacs that aid them in swimming. Azurill are the only known Pokémon to undergo protogyny, a bizarre phenomenon in which a third of female Azurill become male upon evolution. Since Azurill themselves are unable to breed, researchers have ruled out reproductive benefits for such an adaptation. The current theory suggests that this occurrence may simply be due to a mutated sex allele in some female Azurill that would normally make them male but is not expressed until evolution.","Though Bonsly and Sudowoodo resemble plants, their bodies are entirely mineral-based. The line is notable for providing strong evidence supporting a common origin for inorganic and organic Pokémon; unlike Pokémon like Electrode or Klinklang, scientists agree that Sudowoodo’s camouflage was adapted over time through natural selection and speciation. As one of the only inorganic Pokémon found outside of an environment composed primarily of what they themselves are made of (in other words, as Rock-types found outside of rocky areas), this adaptation showed that they could evolve over time instead of spontaneously forming from their basic elements.","Most wild Poliwhirl don’t evolve, as neither Water Stones nor King’s Rocks are common items. Naturally, the Pokémon are neotenous, as they never mature into the standard morphology of typical anurans (for example, Greninja). Even upon evolution into Poliwrath, they still don’t quite resemble adult Pokémon from their order. This contrast is most apparent when Poliwag are compared with Tympole; while Poliwag and Tympole resemble each other, Poliwrath and Seismitoad seem far more disparate. Scientists think that Politoed represent what the Pokémon would look like if they weren’t neotenous, though the evolutionary advantage of neoteny is still a mystery.","As unitegmic asterids, Jumpluff are very closely related to their fellow Grass-type Sunflora. Though some believe they are also related to Whimsicott because of their cotton-like features, the two are not actually even in the same order. One of their characteristic features is their aerially-dispersed spores, which help them propagate over wide swathes of land as they float about. The fact that the spores of female Jumpluff can independently develop into clones of their parents is also interesting. Their high fecundity is likely is what allows Hoppip, who are relatively weak and are easy prey for many Pokémon despite their bitter leaves, to continue to survive as a species.","As unitegmic asterids, Jumpluff are very closely related to their fellow Grass-type Sunflora. Though some believe they are also related to Whimsicott because of their cotton-like features, the two are not actually even in the same order. One of their characteristic features is their aerially-dispersed spores, which help them propagate over wide swathes of land as they float about. The fact that the spores of female Jumpluff can independently develop into clones of their parents is also interesting. Their high fecundity is likely is what allows Hoppip, who are relatively weak and are easy prey for many Pokémon despite their bitter leaves, to continue to survive as a species.","As unitegmic asterids, Jumpluff are very closely related to their fellow Grass-type Sunflora. Though some believe they are also related to Whimsicott because of their cotton-like features, the two are not actually even in the same order. One of their characteristic features is their aerially-dispersed spores, which help them propagate over wide swathes of land as they float about. The fact that the spores of female Jumpluff can independently develop into clones of their parents is also interesting. Their high fecundity is likely is what allows Hoppip, who are relatively weak and are easy prey for many Pokémon despite their bitter leaves, to continue to survive as a species.","Scientists believe that either Ambipom or Primeape was the first primate to diverge, being somewhat related to Passimian. Possessing large brains and the ability to use tools (such as sharpened sticks for piercing the rinds of fruit), Aipom are popular in media as playful, cunning (but not malicious) tricksters. Both Aipom and Ambipom have evolved tails that function much like hands, complete with finger-like appendages. Their hands have atrophied in vestigial remnants over time; they likely evolved this way because of how they spend their lives swinging in trees by their tails. Similarly, their feet are also not well-suited for walking, though not as weak as their hands.","Sunflora are related to their fellow unitegmic asterid Jumpluff. Sunkern are known for being one of the weakest Pokémon known; their continued survival seems to be due almost entirely to their vast numbers and the reproductive speed of their evolutions (a trait they share with their relative Hoppip). Sunflora are thought to be one of the most plant-like Pokémon; their strict dependency on sunlight, for example, contrasts how most other Grass-types are able to supplement their diets with traditional foods. This trait, however, also makes Sunflora easy to raise even in large numbers (such as in Sunflora “gardens”), since sustenance essentially becomes a non-issue for them.","Sunflora are related to their fellow unitegmic asterid Jumpluff. Sunkern are known for being one of the weakest Pokémon known; their continued survival seems to be due almost entirely to their vast numbers and the reproductive speed of their evolutions (a trait they share with their relative Hoppip). Sunflora are thought to be one of the most plant-like Pokémon; their strict dependency on sunlight, for example, contrasts how most other Grass-types are able to supplement their diets with traditional foods. This trait, however, also makes Sunflora easy to raise even in large numbers (such as in Sunflora “gardens”), since sustenance essentially becomes a non-issue for them.","The Yanma line is thought to be a very ancient family of Pokémon, even when compared to fellow arthropods. Yanmega are thought to be living fossils that have changed little from millions of years ago. As menacing as they are today, some of the line’s now-extinct relatives are thought to have been even larger than Yanmega. It is thought that a decrease in available atmospheric oxygen prevented these relatives from thriving, allowing the “smaller” Yanmega to proliferate. These Pokémon are notable for their unique, elongated body plan, their blistering speed, and their ability to hover in the air. ","Quagsire are clearly urodelans, with their closest relative being the Slowpoke line. They are particularly notable for how some populations of wild Wooper are neotenous; they manage to go their entire lives--including mating and reproduction--without evolving. Wooper are more tolerant of fluctuations in factors such as temperature, water salinity, and pH than Quagsire, and thus can dwell in some environments that their evolutions cannot. Additionally, they are more proactive in hunting and are coated in poisonous film, both of which help them survive a broader range of situations than Quagsire. The exact trigger for their neoteny is complex and remains a mystery.","Quagsire are clearly urodelans, with their closest relative being the Slowpoke line. They are particularly notable for how some populations of wild Wooper are neotenous; they manage to go their entire lives--including mating and reproduction--without evolving. Wooper are more tolerant of fluctuations in factors such as temperature, water salinity, and pH than Quagsire, and thus can dwell in some environments that their evolutions cannot. Additionally, they are more proactive in hunting and are coated in poisonous film, both of which help them survive a broader range of situations than Quagsire. The exact trigger for their neoteny is complex and remains a mystery.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Honchkrow are passerines related to Fearow and Swellow; most significantly, they are also in the same genus as Corviknight. They are largely nocturnal, but can be found active during the day in dark places. These Pokémon are well known for their unique social structure, in which flocks of Murkrow “henchmen” serve a single Honchkrow boss, defending the territory as well as bringing back food and shiny loot. Why exactly they are so fascinated with reflective objects is unknown, but scientists theorize that Honchkrow gauge the sizes of their rivals’ hoards in order to judge their might. Thus, they may attempt to create large collections of shiny objects in order to assert their dominance against rival Honchkrow with smaller piles.","The Slowpoke line seems to be an amalgamation of reptilian, amphibious, and mammalian traits. They seem to be evolutionary closest to the amphibians; specifically, they are urodelans, alongside the likes of Quagsire and Swampert. Curiously, they don’t have the need to keep their skin moist like most amphibians, as they do not breathe through it. They have more complex lungs than their brethren, but their development seems to have occurred seperately from their evolution in reptiles and mammals, since the structures differs physiologically. Shellder poison seems to activate the production of a hormone that triggers their evolution and mental stimulation.","Mismagius are ethereal Pokémon with mostly gaseous bodies. They, however, are tangible (unlike their fellow Ghost-type, Gengar). While most other Ghost-types either have membranes or material bodies, Mismagius lack any sort of protective covering; their bodies billow like smoke as they travel, held together by some currently unknown force. Their ability to seemingly materialize and disappear at will makes them difficult to study in the wild. These Pokémon are also related to Mimikyu, Drifblim, and Banette, the last of which with whom they share their typing, body composition, and diet; Banette are characterized by their distinct, cloth bodies, however.","Unown are enigmatic Pokémon that seem to defy many of the basic rules of science itself. They do not seem to eat or breathe, spending most of their time stuck to the walls of ruins, sometimes in text-like patterns. In swarms they are said to trigger inexplicable phenomena that warp the reality of the world; many myths connect them to legendary Pokémon like Arceus, Dialga, and Palkia, among others. The organization of Unown into specific shapes and orders appears to trigger different effects. Because of the potentially catastrophic havoc experimenting with the abilities of Unown may wreak on the world, however, such testing is severely restricted.","Wynaut and Wobbuffet seem to be very primitive Pokémon evolution-wise. Despite their upright statures, they are invertebrates. Research strongly suggests that their true brains--and most vital organs, for that matter--lie in their tails; the blue structures once thought to be their bodies are in fact elaborate decoys. A rudimentary set of nerves, cartilage, and an esophagus allow them to move, eat, and vocalize; however, the bulk of both systems lies in their tails. Though the tails can survive without their decoys, they to lose their countering abilities and become helpless if separated. They seem to be capable of immobilizing foes with strong psychic powers if threatened.","Girafarig are artiodactyl ungulates, making them relatives of Camerupt and Sawsbuck. They are most famous for their two opposing heads. Their main heads are rather standard for Psychic-type Pokémon, being the source of their psychic abilities. Their rear heads, however, seem to function independently of their main heads’ judgements and work primarily based on instinct. They will lash out at anything that comes too near, whether or not the Girafarig themselves are frightened, for example. They learn by smell association--Girafarig poachers would scent themselves with Girafarig musk so that they could sneak up right behind the Pokémon without being attacked.","Although Pineco superficially resemble pinecones (and Forretress rocks), both Pokémon are lepidopterans that have developed carapaces that help them hide and defend against predators. They share this trait with the very closely related Wormadam; however, the Pineco line is believed to be neotenous, as they don’t attain physical traits normally associated with lepidopteran adults. Much like Wormadam, they never gain wings and remain flightless (compared to male Burmy that evolve into airborne Mothim). Scientists believe that perpetually “juvenile” individuals with hard shells likely had a higher survival rate than fragile adults, explaining the evolutionary quirk.","Although Pineco superficially resemble pinecones (and Forretress rocks), both Pokémon are lepidopterans that have developed carapaces that help them hide and defend against predators. They share this trait with the very closely related Wormadam; however, the Pineco line is believed to be neotenous, as they don’t attain physical traits normally associated with lepidopteran adults. Much like Wormadam, they never gain wings and remain flightless (compared to male Burmy that evolve into airborne Mothim). Scientists believe that perpetually “juvenile” individuals with hard shells likely had a higher survival rate than fragile adults, explaining the evolutionary quirk.","Dunsparce are an evolutionary oddity. These serpents are adapted to life in caves, their eyes having withered away into vestigial organs from generations of disuse. They are feeble creatures that cannot easily defend themselves from attackers; their main method of defense is to burrow away into the ground. It is a surprise to many that Dunsparce are the closest living relatives of the powerful Dragonite. Scientists believe that the ancestors of these Pokémon may have been aquatic like Dratini; a population in a cavernous lake may have gradually adapted to to life not only in the dark, but on land as well to avoid predators in the water.","The Gliscor line are unique among the arthropods in their method of flight. Rather than possessing wings, they have membranes that allow them to glide (in the case of Gligar) or fly (Gliscor) through the air. As arachnids, they are very closely related to Drapion; both possess pincers and stingers, although their positions are reversed from one another. The two Pokémon have very similar venoms, and can in fact be treated with the same antivenom. In the past, many believed that these Pokémon were hematophagous like the similar-looking Golbat. However, despite their appearances, the Pokémon are unrelated, and Gliscor have not been ever reported to suck blood.","Onix are rock-based Pokémon, putting them in the same family as Golem and Probopass. Their evolution Steelix, however, have metallic bodies, leading many to question why they are not classified alongside the likes of Klinklang and Metagross. Research shows that the extreme density of Steelix results from the extreme pressure of their underground habitats alongside their lithophagous diets. Trained Onix will not evolve into Steelix without the use of the synthetic Metal Coat. Thus, although Onix are capable of evolving into the metallic Steelix, they are naturally born with rock-based bodies and are classified as such.","Granbull are canines, and one of the group’s most archetypical examples at that. Many canines are known for their affinity for humans and easy domestication; indeed, like Growlithe, Lillipup, and Furfrou, Snubbull and Granbull are common pets even for people that aren’t Pokémon trainers. Their signature characteristic is their protruding lower jaws, which are so heavy that they sometimes impede their ability to stand totally upright. Although they can deliver one of the strongest bite forces known to man, it is believed that they are more of a visual warning than a functional one; Granbull rarely bite, and it takes them great effort to actually do so.","Granbull are canines, and one of the group’s most archetypical examples at that. Many canines are known for their affinity for humans and easy domestication; indeed, like Growlithe, Lillipup, and Furfrou, Snubbull and Granbull are common pets even for people that aren’t Pokémon trainers. Their signature characteristic is their protruding lower jaws, which are so heavy that they sometimes impede their ability to stand totally upright. Although they can deliver one of the strongest bite forces known to man, it is believed that they are more of a visual warning than a functional one; Granbull rarely bite, and it takes them great effort to actually do so.","Qwilfish are a highly-specialized example of a bony, ray-finned fish. Their closest living relatives are Bruxish and surprisingly Alomomola, who, despite their strikingly different physical appearances, share a similar bone structure with them (much of a Qwilfish’s body consists of an elastic sac that holds the water it swallows and allows it to expand). These Pokémon are very poor swimmers. Their spherical bodies are not at all hydrodynamic, and their lack of both pectoral and dorsal fins make it difficult to navigate. However, their spines and venom are more than adequate defenses to protect these clumsy creatures.","As their Bug-typings might suggest, members of the Scyther line are insects. They are very close relatives with Leavanny, who share the blade-like arms of Scyther (though their dispositions starkly contrast one another). This line is also believed to related to Kricketune, as their wings develop internally as opposed to externally like other insects. The evolution from Scyther to Scizor is believed to be one of the most drastic known so far. Scyther are swift and speedy pack hunters capable of flight, while Scizor are sturdy but slower solitary predators that are confined to the ground; the two don’t even seem to recognize each other as the same species in the wild.","Shuckle appear to be a very primitive type of fungi; most of their bodies are composed entirely of soft tissue. Contrary to popular belief, Shuckle do not create their own shells from rocks (this behavior is more typical of the Pokémon Dwebble). They are actually born with these shells, which are intially soft but quickly harden upon contact with air. Unlike other naturally-occuring shells, Shuckle shells are not primarily composed of calcium, but instead carbon. Their shells are one of the hardest substances known to man, and are the subject of intense research for industrial uses. Shuckle juices are also highly valued as natural, organic “superjuices” for the health-conscious.","Heracross are one of the most popular coleopterans in modern media, commonly depicted alongside the Pokémon Pinsir. While Pinsir are both aggressive and carnivorous, Heracross are docile and herbivorous. There are entire television shows dedicated towards watching the two Pokémon fight against--or alongside--one another (though in Kanto notably, it is more common to see Pinsir paired alongside Scyther). Although they rarely open their elytra, Heracross are perfectly capable of flight (albeit clumsily); the same cannot be said for the Mega Evolutions, however, who are too heavy to fly and use their wings primarily for temperature regulation.","Weavile are members of the mammalian group known as the mustelids, with their closest relatives being Floatzel. They are adapted to snowy environments, particularly boreal forests. However, they are more tolerant of heat than most Ice-types. One of their most curious adaptations are the feather-like appendages that sprout on their heads and tails. They were once proposed to determine the ranking of members in a pack, but research shows that such rankings don’t exist in their packs. The leading theory now points to them being an indicator of sexual fitness; it should be noted that female Sneasel have shorter “feathers” than male ones.","Ursaring are very closely related to Bewear, Beartic, and Pangoro, as all of them are ursids. Based on their hibernation patterns and the reliance of Teddiursa on Beedrill honey, it seems that Ursaring are adapted to temperate climates. Because humans have increasingly urbanized such areas, encounters with wild Ursaring have become more common in cities over the years; some even have learned to lurk around Berry trees in suburban areas for food. The connection between Ursaring and the moon is uncertain; their rings glow faintly when exposed to moonlight. Some believe that Ursaring may regulate their internal cycles based on the moon rather than the sun.","Ursaring are very closely related to Bewear, Beartic, and Pangoro, as all of them are ursids. Based on their hibernation patterns and the reliance of Teddiursa on Beedrill honey, it seems that Ursaring are adapted to temperate climates. Because humans have increasingly urbanized such areas, encounters with wild Ursaring have become more common in cities over the years; some even have learned to lurk around Berry trees in suburban areas for food. The connection between Ursaring and the moon is uncertain; their rings glow faintly when exposed to moonlight. Some believe that Ursaring may regulate their internal cycles based on the moon rather than the sun.","Slugma and Magcargo are creatures of lava, with body systems that have been drastically modified from their closest gastropodan relatives--Goodra and Gastrodon. They were once thought to have had inorganic origins, perhaps related to rock-based Pokémon like Golem. Their thin skins, however, are distinctly organic in composition, and though they have developed to resist the extreme heat of their environments, their open circulatory systems greatly resemble that of other mollusks in general plan. In the food-poor environment of active volcanoes, perhaps evolving the ability to withstand and obtain nutrients from magma was critical to their success.","Slugma and Magcargo are creatures of lava, with body systems that have been drastically modified from their closest gastropodan relatives--Goodra and Gastrodon. They were once thought to have had inorganic origins, perhaps related to rock-based Pokémon like Golem. Their thin skins, however, are distinctly organic in composition, and though they have developed to resist the extreme heat of their environments, their open circulatory systems greatly resemble that of other mollusks in general plan. In the food-poor environment of active volcanoes, perhaps evolving the ability to withstand and obtain nutrients from magma was critical to their success.","There is some debate as to whether these ancient Pokémon are more closely related to the modern Donphan or Emboar. Though they have been traditionally classified with the former due to their quadrupedal nature and possession of tusks, many scientists today believe that they are much more closely related to the latter, primarily citing their physiology and short snouts. Mamoswine are famously prehistoric, most notably with one individual being successfully thawed from ice after being frozen for thousands of years. While Swinub and Piloswine can be found in a number of snowy areas, Mamoswine only inhabit the most frozen glaciers of the world.","There is some debate as to whether these ancient Pokémon are more closely related to the modern Donphan or Emboar. Though they have been traditionally classified with the former due to their quadrupedal nature and possession of tusks, many scientists today believe that they are much more closely related to the latter, primarily citing their physiology and short snouts. Mamoswine are famously prehistoric, most notably with one individual being successfully thawed from ice after being frozen for thousands of years. While Swinub and Piloswine can be found in a number of snowy areas, Mamoswine only inhabit the most frozen glaciers of the world.","Corsola are an integral part of tropical marine ecosystems. Their horns, both live and discarded, form the foundation of reefs, providing nooks and crannies for small Pokémon to hide in. However, because Corsola are very sensitive to changes in temperature and water purity, the reefs that they form are also fragile. Most notably, the worldwide increase in pollution levels due to human activity has adversely affected Corsola reefs, causing them to decay and shrink in area. Fierce conservation efforts to protect these Pokémon and the ecosystems they support are underway. These surprisingly-close relatives of Tentacruel are also lauded for their regenerative abilities.","Given how dissimilar Remoraid and Octillery are, it is no surprise that scientists didn’t realize that the two Pokémon were related for a long time. Even today, it is a common misconception that neither of them have any evolutionary relatives. Their physical disparity is only exacerbated by the fact that while Octillery are exclusively maritime, Remoraid venture into freshwater rivers for a portion of their lives; inland anglers may encounter Remoraid with some frequency while never seeing their evolutions. The line is thought to be most closely related to Malamar, as its most mature stage shares both physiological characteristics as well as breeding habits with it.","Given how dissimilar Remoraid and Octillery are, it is no surprise that scientists didn’t realize that the two Pokémon were related for a long time. Even today, it is a common misconception that neither of them have any evolutionary relatives. Their physical disparity is only exacerbated by the fact that while Octillery are exclusively maritime, Remoraid venture into freshwater rivers for a portion of their lives; inland anglers may encounter Remoraid with some frequency while never seeing their evolutions. The line is thought to be most closely related to Malamar, as its most mature stage shares both physiological characteristics as well as breeding habits with it.","With their stocky bodies and tiny, arm-like wings, it is a miracle of nature that Delibird can even manage to fly, let alone for the long distances and periods of time that they do. Their closest relatives, Empoleon, have adapted to an amphibious lifestyle; indeed, it is very strange that Delibird, with their flippers and pseudo-webbed feet, dwell atop icy peaks rather than near the water. This heavily suggests that they have branched off very recently from their relatives. Delibird in Alola are tolerable of temperate climates, providing further evidence. It should be noted that their wide feet, though not used for swimming, help keep Delibird from sinking in the snow as they waddle.","Surprisingly, Mantine are the closest living relatives of Sharpedo—both have cartilaginous skeletons rather than bony ones. These gentle giants are famous for their mutualistic relationship with the much smaller Remoraid. In fact, the two have coevolved to depend upon one another for survival. Mantyke are large baby Pokémon that are easy targets for predators, so they will swim alongside schools of Remoraid for protection; conversely, Remoraid are eager to latch onto Mantyke once they grow large enough for easy food and travel until they evolve. In fact, the successful attachment of a Remoraid to a Mantyke triggers the latter’s evolution into Mantine.","Skarmory are avians with an entire scientific family to call their own. They are known in popular culture for their ruthless behavior, and are often depicted as villains in movies and television shoes. In the scientific world, they have garnered considerable interest because of their unique physiology; despite having tough, iron-hard feathers, they are very lightweight and capable of flying at high speeds. As such, Skarmory have been considered as models for both military aircrafts. Some consider Skarmory to be a more extreme version of Fearow; both are hardy avians that are often characterized as cruel, but Skarmory will inhabit wastelands even Fearow cannot tolerate.","Houndoom are very closely related to Arcanine, Granbull, and Stoutland. Unlike the aforementioned Pokémon, which are widely domesticated, though, Houndoom are much closer to the group’s feral roots, sharing this trait with Lycanroc and Manectric. While its fellow Fire-type canid Arcanine have evolved to thrive on plains and prairies, with plenty of open space to run free, Houndoom have adapted to survive in dense forests and rocky, uneven badlands. They trade Arcanine’s bulk and raw speed for a more streamlined figure and increased agility, allowing them to chase down scarce prey in their unforgiving habitats.","Houndoom are very closely related to Arcanine, Granbull, and Stoutland. Unlike the aforementioned Pokémon, which are widely domesticated, though, Houndoom are much closer to the group’s feral roots, sharing this trait with Lycanroc and Manectric. While its fellow Fire-type canid Arcanine have evolved to thrive on plains and prairies, with plenty of open space to run free, Houndoom have adapted to survive in dense forests and rocky, uneven badlands. They trade Arcanine’s bulk and raw speed for a more streamlined figure and increased agility, allowing them to chase down scarce prey in their unforgiving habitats.","Though they do not resemble them superficially, members of the Horsea line are classified as ray-finned fishes. It is no surprise that their closest relative is Dragalge, who share their characteristic upright posture. Genetic research on this line has revealed that Horsea and Seadra have dormant genes characteristic of Dragon-type Pokémon (as well as portions of DNA coding for the Poison-typing, though they lack complete genes; these sequences are inexplicably only expressed in Seadra). These genes activate when Seadra are exposed to Dragon Scales, trigger their evolutions into Kingdra. They were the first Pokémon in which this type of genetic expression was observed.","In traditional biology, these Pokémon are believed to be the modern descendants of the prehistoric Mamoswine, though some scientists today believe that Mamoswine are in fact more closely related to Emboar. Donphan are one of the most iconic Pokémon of the plains; the image of a herd of the Pokémon rolling across the savannah has been used in countless forms of media to set a safari-like theme. Donphan are also the face of conservation ecology as one of the field’s first major successes; once endangered due to poaching for their ivory tusks, tireless efforts to raise awareness of their plight have reduced demand for their tusks to practically zero. ","In traditional biology, these Pokémon are believed to be the modern descendants of the prehistoric Mamoswine, though some scientists today believe that Mamoswine are in fact more closely related to Emboar. Donphan are one of the most iconic Pokémon of the plains; the image of a herd of the Pokémon rolling across the savannah has been used in countless forms of media to set a safari-like theme. Donphan are also the face of conservation ecology as one of the field’s first major successes; once endangered due to poaching for their ivory tusks, tireless efforts to raise awareness of their plight have reduced demand for their tusks to practically zero. ","Silph Co. created the first artificial Pokémon, Porygon, in the late 1990s, and issued its upgrade, Porygon2, at the turn of the century. Porygon-Z was an unauthorized update created by an unknown group of hackers. Some people believe that Team Galactic created the patch while perfecting interdimensional travel, while others think that Team Plasma scientist Colress covertly created Porygon-Z at the P2 Laboratory in Unova. Though owning a Porygon-Z is technically illegal, the Pokémon has become so famous (including a starring role in a popular video game as a corrupt research facility AI) that Silph Co. has ceased taking action against its owners.","Stantler are very close relatives with Sawsbuck. Unlike their seasonal relatives, however, they are adapted to a rather wide range of environments. In addition to being at home in the deciduous forests that Sawsbuck dwell in, they can also be found in coniferous and boreal forests, as well as some rocky mountains. The mystifying properties of their horns are very interesting; this power originates from the black orbs in the antlers. Chemical analyses of powdered Stantler horns reveal that their composition is very similar to soporific plant-based substances. It is still unknown, however, how they are able to induce trance-like states in mere onlookers.","Closely related to Granbull, Smeargle are famed for their artistic capabilities. They are a favorite amongst painters, who both teach and learn techniques from these Pokémon. Individual Smeargle develop their own art styles as they become more experienced, and art from famous ones have sold for millions. Their other unique ability is the move Sketch, which allows them to permanently replicate any attack they witness by etching its likeness in painting. Scientists have tried to figure this process out for years, but to no avail. One Johto researcher was recorded throwing her hands up and saying, “I don’t know, just look at it and tell that this thing breathing fire is logical.”","The Tyrogue line is undisputedly humanoid, sharing a similar morphology to humans. They also seem to support the trend of humanoids sporting either Psychic- or Fighting-typings (in this case the latter), a phenomenon that is being intensely researched today in hopes of establishing a true link between people and Pokémon. The characteristic adaptation of this line appears to be the unique structure of their limbs, which allow them to throw out punches and kicks farther than they may appear to be able to. Tyrogue’s evolution appear to be directly connected to how the Pokémon train, with different fighting styles triggering different evolution-inducing hormones.","The Tyrogue line is undisputedly humanoid, sharing a similar morphology to humans. They also seem to support the trend of humanoids sporting either Psychic- or Fighting-typings (in this case the latter), a phenomenon that is being intensely researched today in hopes of establishing a true link between people and Pokémon. The characteristic adaptation of this line appears to be the unique structure of their limbs, which allow them to throw out punches and kicks farther than they may appear to be able to. Tyrogue’s evolution appear to be directly connected to how the Pokémon train, with different fighting styles triggering different evolution-inducing hormones.","Jynx are distinctly humanoid, sometimes even being mistaken for people from behind. Because they are so elusive, they are difficult subjects for scientists to research in the wild. No one is quite sure what Jynx conceal beneath their billowing “dresses”; they leave no footprints behind as they walk, though some believe that they may simply be using their psychic powers to levitate. Both Smoochum and Jynx have very thin skin that makes them susceptible to changes in atmospheric humidity. Their skin is particularly fragile around their lips, which also have a large number of nerve endings. ","The Elekid line are classified as primates, specifically as apes because of the lumbering body structure of Electivire. They share this trait with Darmanitan and Rillaboom, their fellow apes and closest relatives. Though primates have a reputation for being unusually intelligent, the Elekid line seems to display average intellect for Pokémon; the more agile primates, like Ambipom, Infernape, the Simi monkeys, and especially Oranguru fit this perception more than Electivire. Despite this, the ratio of their brain mass to body mass is noticeably larger than that of other Pokémon, a trait indicative of all species classified as primates.","The Magby line was an enigma to scientists; Magmar (the most common member of the lien in the wild) had a Psyduck’s bill but a Charmeleon’s tail, leading to some conclusion regarding its classification. Subsequent studies on the Pokémon along with its evolutions brought evidence that they were definitively reptilian, albeit with large deposits of adipose tissue that gave them their stocky builds. They share this trait with Lickilicky, who also confused researchers because of its odd body shape. Because of their curious behavior regarding volcanoes, scientists are looking into studying the behavior of Magby in order to predict volcanic eruptions.","Miltank are very close relatives of Tauros--so close, in fact, that many think that they are different genders of the same Pokémon. However, unlike counterparts like the Nidorans or Volbeat and Illumise, Miltank are unable to give birth to infant Tauros. Miltank were domesticated long ago in human history, bred for their incredibly nutritious milk. Societies with domestic Miltank could survive entirely on a diet their milk and agricultural crops. While they may have descended from the same recent ancestor, the relatively untamed Tauros is no longer considered the same species as Miltank, much as how Lillipup and other canid Pokémon are distinguished.","","","","","Tyranitar are the closest extant relatives of the extinct Tyrantrum. Although scientists aren’t sure if the two lived concurrently with one another, Tyranitar are definitely an ancient species of “living fossils.” Unlike other the pre-evolutions Pokémon that are exceptionally strong in their final forms, both Larvitar and Pupitar rarely are at the mercy of predators. Larvitar live so deep underground that they seldom encounter other Pokémon, while Pupitar have hard shells and can actually launch themselves violently to defend against attackers. These defenses in the line’s early stages of development likely contributed to its continued survival over the ages.","Tyranitar are the closest extant relatives of the extinct Tyrantrum. Although scientists aren’t sure if the two lived concurrently with one another, Tyranitar are definitely an ancient species of “living fossils.” Unlike other the pre-evolutions Pokémon that are exceptionally strong in their final forms, both Larvitar and Pupitar rarely are at the mercy of predators. Larvitar live so deep underground that they seldom encounter other Pokémon, while Pupitar have hard shells and can actually launch themselves violently to defend against attackers. These defenses in the line’s early stages of development likely contributed to its continued survival over the ages.","Tyranitar are the closest extant relatives of the extinct Tyrantrum. Although scientists aren’t sure if the two lived concurrently with one another, Tyranitar are definitely an ancient species of “living fossils.” Unlike other the pre-evolutions Pokémon that are exceptionally strong in their final forms, both Larvitar and Pupitar rarely are at the mercy of predators. Larvitar live so deep underground that they seldom encounter other Pokémon, while Pupitar have hard shells and can actually launch themselves violently to defend against attackers. These defenses in the line’s early stages of development likely contributed to its continued survival over the ages.","","","","The Treecko family are squamates most closely related to Kecleon and Helioptile. The key to their  success is their incredible agility as well as climbing and leaping prowess. These Pokémon thrive best in dense forests, though they seem to prefer temperate climates over tropical ones. Sceptile are very rare in the wild, but are keystone species in their habitats. Scientists have noted that they fulfill a very similar niche in Hoenn forests as Venusaur do in Kanto ones, ensuring that their homes remain safe from danger. However, Venusaur try to maintain peace among Pokémon in their forests, while Sceptile ensure that the trees themselves thrive and flourish.","The Treecko family are squamates most closely related to Kecleon and Helioptile. The key to their  success is their incredible agility as well as climbing and leaping prowess. These Pokémon thrive best in dense forests, though they seem to prefer temperate climates over tropical ones. Sceptile are very rare in the wild, but are keystone species in their habitats. Scientists have noted that they fulfill a very similar niche in Hoenn forests as Venusaur do in Kanto ones, ensuring that their homes remain safe from danger. However, Venusaur try to maintain peace among Pokémon in their forests, while Sceptile ensure that the trees themselves thrive and flourish.","The Treecko family are squamates most closely related to Kecleon and Helioptile. The key to their  success is their incredible agility as well as climbing and leaping prowess. These Pokémon thrive best in dense forests, though they seem to prefer temperate climates over tropical ones. Sceptile are very rare in the wild, but are keystone species in their habitats. Scientists have noted that they fulfill a very similar niche in Hoenn forests as Venusaur do in Kanto ones, ensuring that their homes remain safe from danger. However, Venusaur try to maintain peace among Pokémon in their forests, while Sceptile ensure that the trees themselves thrive and flourish.","The Torchic line is an oddity amongst avian Pokémon; while others like Empoleon may be flightless, the line has in fact traded in its wings for distinctly talon-like arms. Torchic possess neither wings nor arms (much like Doduo, though it is more closely related to Pidove), but begin to develop fingers when they evolve into Combusken; sharp claws protrude from the feathers that cover the rest of the appendage. Blaziken shed these feathers entirely and possess hands that resemble the talons of other avians. They seem to have convergently evolved this mammalian feature, as well as upright stance, alongside their fighting prowess.","The Torchic line is an oddity amongst avian Pokémon; while others like Empoleon may be flightless, the line has in fact traded in its wings for distinctly talon-like arms. Torchic possess neither wings nor arms (much like Doduo, though it is more closely related to Pidove), but begin to develop fingers when they evolve into Combusken; sharp claws protrude from the feathers that cover the rest of the appendage. Blaziken shed these feathers entirely and possess hands that resemble the talons of other avians. They seem to have convergently evolved this mammalian feature, as well as upright stance, alongside their fighting prowess.","The Torchic line is an oddity amongst avian Pokémon; while others like Empoleon may be flightless, the line has in fact traded in its wings for distinctly talon-like arms. Torchic possess neither wings nor arms (much like Doduo, though it is more closely related to Pidove), but begin to develop fingers when they evolve into Combusken; sharp claws protrude from the feathers that cover the rest of the appendage. Blaziken shed these feathers entirely and possess hands that resemble the talons of other avians. They seem to have convergently evolved this mammalian feature, as well as upright stance, alongside their fighting prowess.","The amphibious Mudkip line has been an anomaly for taxonomists across the world. At first, they overlooked the limbs of these Pokémon and classified them as highly-diverged fish, having adapted hands and feet to push aside thick mud. This was mainly due to the fact that they possessed clear gills and did not breathe through their skin like most amphibians. However, many have now reversed this placement; it seems more likely that they developed specialized gill organs to breathe in muddy waters that would suffocate most other Pokémon. Regardless, this old classification has stuck and lived on in the line’s nickname as “the Mud Fish Pokémon.”","The amphibious Mudkip line has been an anomaly for taxonomists across the world. At first, they overlooked the limbs of these Pokémon and classified them as highly-diverged fish, having adapted hands and feet to push aside thick mud. This was mainly due to the fact that they possessed clear gills and did not breathe through their skin like most amphibians. However, many have now reversed this placement; it seems more likely that they developed specialized gill organs to breathe in muddy waters that would suffocate most other Pokémon. Regardless, this old classification has stuck and lived on in the line’s nickname as “the Mud Fish Pokémon.”","The amphibious Mudkip line has been an anomaly for taxonomists across the world. At first, they overlooked the limbs of these Pokémon and classified them as highly-diverged fish, having adapted hands and feet to push aside thick mud. This was mainly due to the fact that they possessed clear gills and did not breathe through their skin like most amphibians. However, many have now reversed this placement; it seems more likely that they developed specialized gill organs to breathe in muddy waters that would suffocate most other Pokémon. Regardless, this old classification has stuck and lived on in the line’s nickname as “the Mud Fish Pokémon.”","It comes as a surprise to many that Mightyena is more closely related to felines like Persian than canines like Granbull. Their true closest relatives are Absol, Watchog, and Zangoose, and all possess a unique skull structure not found in canid Pokémon. Mightyena are a very interesting case of convergent evolution, however. In addition to sharing many physical features with canines, they hunt in packs with clear pecking orders more closely resembling Houndoom groups rather than the Luxray or Pyroar prides. Scientists hypothesize they may have evolved this way to specialize in hunting and scavenging prey on flat ground rather than in the trees.","It comes as a surprise to many that Mightyena is more closely related to felines like Persian than canines like Granbull. Their true closest relatives are Absol, Watchog, and Zangoose, and all possess a unique skull structure not found in canid Pokémon. Mightyena are a very interesting case of convergent evolution, however. In addition to sharing many physical features with canines, they hunt in packs with clear pecking orders more closely resembling Houndoom groups rather than the Luxray or Pyroar prides. Scientists hypothesize they may have evolved this way to specialize in hunting and scavenging prey on flat ground rather than in the trees.","The Zigzagoon line is thought to be one of the earliest-diverging carnivorans (in classification; they are omnivores in practice). Its closest extant relative is perhaps the Pokémon Spinda, even though it superficially resembles the likes of Furret or Floatzel. The family is of particular interest to some urban scientists because it seems to have not only persisted, but thrived in deforested areas turned into cities. Zigzagoon are well adapted to foraging in trash cans for food, and Linoone can easily dash through the straight, grid-like streets of major metropolises. Their success is a testament to nature’s resilience and adaptability even in the face of change.","The Zigzagoon line is thought to be one of the earliest-diverging carnivorans (in classification; they are omnivores in practice). Its closest extant relative is perhaps the Pokémon Spinda, even though it superficially resembles the likes of Furret or Floatzel. The family is of particular interest to some urban scientists because it seems to have not only persisted, but thrived in deforested areas turned into cities. Zigzagoon are well adapted to foraging in trash cans for food, and Linoone can easily dash through the straight, grid-like streets of major metropolises. Their success is a testament to nature’s resilience and adaptability even in the face of change.","Although Dustox shares many similarities with Venomoth, the Wurmple family as a whole is more closely related to Butterfree and Vivillon because it is holometabolic like the other two. Scientists think that Wurmple’s ability to evolve into Cascoon and  Dustox in fact developed as a secondary, alternative route to Silcoon and Beautifly evolutionarily. The line appears to have diverged in feeding habits to stop competition within the species; the Wurmple family assumes the niches of both Butterfree and Venomoth in the Kanto region, with Beautifly feeding on pollen and nectar and Dustox feeding on tree leaves.","Although Dustox shares many similarities with Venomoth, the Wurmple family as a whole is more closely related to Butterfree and Vivillon because it is holometabolic like the other two. Scientists think that Wurmple’s ability to evolve into Cascoon and  Dustox in fact developed as a secondary, alternative route to Silcoon and Beautifly evolutionarily. The line appears to have diverged in feeding habits to stop competition within the species; the Wurmple family assumes the niches of both Butterfree and Venomoth in the Kanto region, with Beautifly feeding on pollen and nectar and Dustox feeding on tree leaves.","Although Dustox shares many similarities with Venomoth, the Wurmple family as a whole is more closely related to Butterfree and Vivillon because it is holometabolic like the other two. Scientists think that Wurmple’s ability to evolve into Cascoon and  Dustox in fact developed as a secondary, alternative route to Silcoon and Beautifly evolutionarily. The line appears to have diverged in feeding habits to stop competition within the species; the Wurmple family assumes the niches of both Butterfree and Venomoth in the Kanto region, with Beautifly feeding on pollen and nectar and Dustox feeding on tree leaves.","Although Dustox shares many similarities with Venomoth, the Wurmple family as a whole is more closely related to Butterfree and Vivillon because it is holometabolic like the other two. Scientists think that Wurmple’s ability to evolve into Cascoon and  Dustox in fact developed as a secondary, alternative route to Silcoon and Beautifly evolutionarily. The line appears to have diverged in feeding habits to stop competition within the species; the Wurmple family assumes the niches of both Butterfree and Venomoth in the Kanto region, with Beautifly feeding on pollen and nectar and Dustox feeding on tree leaves.","Although Dustox shares many similarities with Venomoth, the Wurmple family as a whole is more closely related to Butterfree and Vivillon because it is holometabolic like the other two. Scientists think that Wurmple’s ability to evolve into Cascoon and  Dustox in fact developed as a secondary, alternative route to Silcoon and Beautifly evolutionarily. The line appears to have diverged in feeding habits to stop competition within the species; the Wurmple family assumes the niches of both Butterfree and Venomoth in the Kanto region, with Beautifly feeding on pollen and nectar and Dustox feeding on tree leaves.","Few people know what to make of Lotad and their evolutions. Scientists have never reached a consensus on its evolutionary heritage—avian, amphibious, mammalian, or botanical. They do agree, however, that its Pokémon ancestors had evolved symbiotically with the plants that grow along with them. The two organisms, floral and faunal, have become so mutually dependent that they are now a single Pokémon. The plant gradually grows from the head down through evolution to eventually cover the whole organism; their entire bodies are sheathed in pliant cellulose and shaggy “hair” that helps absorb damage from attacks.","Few people know what to make of Lotad and their evolutions. Scientists have never reached a consensus on its evolutionary heritage—avian, amphibious, mammalian, or botanical. They do agree, however, that its Pokémon ancestors had evolved symbiotically with the plants that grow along with them. The two organisms, floral and faunal, have become so mutually dependent that they are now a single Pokémon. The plant gradually grows from the head down through evolution to eventually cover the whole organism; their entire bodies are sheathed in pliant cellulose and shaggy “hair” that helps absorb damage from attacks.","Few people know what to make of Lotad and their evolutions. Scientists have never reached a consensus on its evolutionary heritage—avian, amphibious, mammalian, or botanical. They do agree, however, that its Pokémon ancestors had evolved symbiotically with the plants that grow along with them. The two organisms, floral and faunal, have become so mutually dependent that they are now a single Pokémon. The plant gradually grows from the head down through evolution to eventually cover the whole organism; their entire bodies are sheathed in pliant cellulose and shaggy “hair” that helps absorb damage from attacks.","These Pokémon are mostly composed of wood. They are eudicotic angiosperms whose closest living relative is Gourgeist. Seedot and its evolutions are deeply involved in the popular folkore of the regions they inhabit, such as Hoenn. Characterized as vaguely malevolent spirits that are distrustful of humans, many people attribute misfortunes that occur during their forest travels to these Pokémon. They have traditionally symbolized forces of mischief in literature, though more contemporary pieces have also utilized them as protagonists; the aforementioned story of the Nuzleaf that could not lie remains one of the most popular children’s book to date.","These Pokémon are mostly composed of wood. They are eudicotic angiosperms whose closest living relative is Gourgeist. Seedot and its evolutions are deeply involved in the popular folkore of the regions they inhabit, such as Hoenn. Characterized as vaguely malevolent spirits that are distrustful of humans, many people attribute misfortunes that occur during their forest travels to these Pokémon. They have traditionally symbolized forces of mischief in literature, though more contemporary pieces have also utilized them as protagonists; the aforementioned story of the Nuzleaf that could not lie remains one of the most popular children’s book to date.","These Pokémon are mostly composed of wood. They are eudicotic angiosperms whose closest living relative is Gourgeist. Seedot and its evolutions are deeply involved in the popular folkore of the regions they inhabit, such as Hoenn. Characterized as vaguely malevolent spirits that are distrustful of humans, many people attribute misfortunes that occur during their forest travels to these Pokémon. They have traditionally symbolized forces of mischief in literature, though more contemporary pieces have also utilized them as protagonists; the aforementioned story of the Nuzleaf that could not lie remains one of the most popular children’s book to date.","Swellow are passerines that are most closely related to Honchkrow, Oricorio, and Altaria. They are adapted to warm, but not hot climates, making them particularly suited to the temperate forests of the Hoenn region. Taillow are unique amongst avian Pokémon in that they are fiercely independent. They leave the nest as soon as they are able and begin to fend for themselves before they can even fly properly. Although they are feisty Pokémon, many unfortunately don’t survive long enough to evolve. Swellow mate often and produce many eggs to counteract this, especially since they don’t have to dedicate much time or resources into caring for their young.","Swellow are passerines that are most closely related to Honchkrow, Oricorio, and Altaria. They are adapted to warm, but not hot climates, making them particularly suited to the temperate forests of the Hoenn region. Taillow are unique amongst avian Pokémon in that they are fiercely independent. They leave the nest as soon as they are able and begin to fend for themselves before they can even fly properly. Although they are feisty Pokémon, many unfortunately don’t survive long enough to evolve. Swellow mate often and produce many eggs to counteract this, especially since they don’t have to dedicate much time or resources into caring for their young.","Wingull are a very common sight on beaches and shorelines, and certainly are more abundant than the related Delibird and Empoleon. They have adapted very well to life near human settlements, and often pester beachgoers for the scraps of food they leave behind. They are sometimes jokingly called “Rattata with wings” because of the nuisance they pose to tourists. Pelipper, on the other hand, are less maligned in popular culture. They are usually seen as friendly and helpful, though a bit daft. The use of Pelipper to send messages may have indirectly led to to the rise of Wingull populations near human docks and piers.","Wingull are a very common sight on beaches and shorelines, and certainly are more abundant than the related Delibird and Empoleon. They have adapted very well to life near human settlements, and often pester beachgoers for the scraps of food they leave behind. They are sometimes jokingly called “Rattata with wings” because of the nuisance they pose to tourists. Pelipper, on the other hand, are less maligned in popular culture. They are usually seen as friendly and helpful, though a bit daft. The use of Pelipper to send messages may have indirectly led to to the rise of Wingull populations near human docks and piers.","For scientists that believed Pokémon and people share a common ancestor, the humanoid Ralts line was thought to be one of humanity’s closest relatives. However, recent studies have proposed a new division that instead includes them in the novel Fascinus. Ralts and its evolutions are very popular Pokémon, but are also famously difficult to raise; it is said training a Ralts is more akin to raising a child a Pokémon. This also makes the line one of the most controversial in the debate of Pokémon training ethics; they are clearly able to think and feel emotions like people, yet can be caught like any other Pokémon. On the other hand, they also thrive best alongside a compassionate human, and can easily evade capture if they choose to do so.","For scientists that believed Pokémon and people share a common ancestor, the humanoid Ralts line was thought to be one of humanity’s closest relatives. However, recent studies have proposed a new division that instead includes them in the novel Fascinus. Ralts and its evolutions are very popular Pokémon, but are also famously difficult to raise; it is said training a Ralts is more akin to raising a child a Pokémon. This also makes the line one of the most controversial in the debate of Pokémon training ethics; they are clearly able to think and feel emotions like people, yet can be caught like any other Pokémon. On the other hand, they also thrive best alongside a compassionate human, and can easily evade capture if they choose to do so.","For scientists that believed Pokémon and people share a common ancestor, the humanoid Ralts line was thought to be one of humanity’s closest relatives. However, recent studies have proposed a new division that instead includes them in the novel Fascinus. Ralts and its evolutions are very popular Pokémon, but are also famously difficult to raise; it is said training a Ralts is more akin to raising a child a Pokémon. This also makes the line one of the most controversial in the debate of Pokémon training ethics; they are clearly able to think and feel emotions like people, yet can be caught like any other Pokémon. On the other hand, they also thrive best alongside a compassionate human, and can easily evade capture if they choose to do so.","Surskit and Masquerain distinguish themselves from the related Volcarona and Venomoth with their marked preference for water. Surskit have adapted to live entirely on the surfaces of ponds, allowing them to escape from terrestrial predators with ease. Beyond this defense, both evolutions can also produce distinct pheromones to affect the behavior of those around them. Masquerain are famous for their bold antennae, which deter predators from attacking. Their unique wings allow them to fly in any direction to flit away from foes. As any one of these mechanisms likely would have been enough for survival, scientists are unsure why they have so many of them.","Surskit and Masquerain distinguish themselves from the related Volcarona and Venomoth with their marked preference for water. Surskit have adapted to live entirely on the surfaces of ponds, allowing them to escape from terrestrial predators with ease. Beyond this defense, both evolutions can also produce distinct pheromones to affect the behavior of those around them. Masquerain are famous for their bold antennae, which deter predators from attacking. Their unique wings allow them to fly in any direction to flit away from foes. As any one of these mechanisms likely would have been enough for survival, scientists are unsure why they have so many of them.","Shroomish and Breloom are fungi like the related Amoonguss, with Shroomish being a more prototypical member of the kingdom. Breloom is the most developed fungal species known so far, having become bipedal with a physiology very much resembling that of mammals or saurians. While not exceptionally intelligent, they seem to be more perceptive than many other Pokémon even if they seem absentminded on the surface. While notorious for being one of the most common causes of injury amongst Hoenn trainers, Shroomish are irreplaceable in the forests they call home because of the valuable role they play as decomposers.","Shroomish and Breloom are fungi like the related Amoonguss, with Shroomish being a more prototypical member of the kingdom. Breloom is the most developed fungal species known so far, having become bipedal with a physiology very much resembling that of mammals or saurians. While not exceptionally intelligent, they seem to be more perceptive than many other Pokémon even if they seem absentminded on the surface. While notorious for being one of the most common causes of injury amongst Hoenn trainers, Shroomish are irreplaceable in the forests they call home because of the valuable role they play as decomposers.","It comes as a surprise to many that the Slakoth family’s closest extant relative is Heatmor. The line is notable for its rapid change in temperament upon evolution; while sluggishness is not unique to Slakoth and Slaking, no other family has an evolution like Vigoroth. This hyperactive middle stage is thought to have developed due to the familial colonies these Pokémon form. In the wild, most Slakoth only evolve into Vigoroth, never becoming Slaking; the survival tactic of strong, evolved Pokémon defending their weak, younger brethren is very common in the wild. Slaking are once again lethargic to maximize the energy they can use for reproduction.  ","It comes as a surprise to many that the Slakoth family’s closest extant relative is Heatmor. The line is notable for its rapid change in temperament upon evolution; while sluggishness is not unique to Slakoth and Slaking, no other family has an evolution like Vigoroth. This hyperactive middle stage is thought to have developed due to the familial colonies these Pokémon form. In the wild, most Slakoth only evolve into Vigoroth, never becoming Slaking; the survival tactic of strong, evolved Pokémon defending their weak, younger brethren is very common in the wild. Slaking are once again lethargic to maximize the energy they can use for reproduction.  ","It comes as a surprise to many that the Slakoth family’s closest extant relative is Heatmor. The line is notable for its rapid change in temperament upon evolution; while sluggishness is not unique to Slakoth and Slaking, no other family has an evolution like Vigoroth. This hyperactive middle stage is thought to have developed due to the familial colonies these Pokémon form. In the wild, most Slakoth only evolve into Vigoroth, never becoming Slaking; the survival tactic of strong, evolved Pokémon defending their weak, younger brethren is very common in the wild. Slaking are once again lethargic to maximize the energy they can use for reproduction.  ","There are quite a few interesting tidbits about these close relatives of Parasect. Each stage of this line has a different typing, for instance. Nincada’s unique evolutionary path is another. Perhaps most fascinating, though, is the very existence of Shedinja. In the wild, not all Nincada will also produce Shedinja upon evolution; it is unknown exactly what conditions are necessary to create them, but scientists do know that Nincada with damaged exoskeletons before evolution will never produce Shedinja. Their mysterious ability to brush off most attacks is also of great interest to researchers; they are coated in a thin film that seems to defy scientific explanation.","There are quite a few interesting tidbits about these close relatives of Parasect. Each stage of this line has a different typing, for instance. Nincada’s unique evolutionary path is another. Perhaps most fascinating, though, is the very existence of Shedinja. In the wild, not all Nincada will also produce Shedinja upon evolution; it is unknown exactly what conditions are necessary to create them, but scientists do know that Nincada with damaged exoskeletons before evolution will never produce Shedinja. Their mysterious ability to brush off most attacks is also of great interest to researchers; they are coated in a thin film that seems to defy scientific explanation.","There are quite a few interesting tidbits about these close relatives of Parasect. Each stage of this line has a different typing, for instance. Nincada’s unique evolutionary path is another. Perhaps most fascinating, though, is the very existence of Shedinja. In the wild, not all Nincada will also produce Shedinja upon evolution; it is unknown exactly what conditions are necessary to create them, but scientists do know that Nincada with damaged exoskeletons before evolution will never produce Shedinja. Their mysterious ability to brush off most attacks is also of great interest to researchers; they are coated in a thin film that seems to defy scientific explanation.","These odd-looking Pokémon are in fact highly diverged lagomorphs, distant relatives of Lopunny and the Nidoran family. Whismur’s large ears are a remnant of this evolutionary heritage (though they also help them hear very well). They have adapted to life in dark caves; troglodytic Whismur don’t even have functioning eyes, instead using echolocation to find their way around. Their evolutions instead utilize their sonic capabilities for offensive purposes. Scientists have noted that this repurposing is similar to that of the Pokémon Noivern, who similarly began using their sonar to defend themselves in an example of convergent evolution.","These odd-looking Pokémon are in fact highly diverged lagomorphs, distant relatives of Lopunny and the Nidoran family. Whismur’s large ears are a remnant of this evolutionary heritage (though they also help them hear very well). They have adapted to life in dark caves; troglodytic Whismur don’t even have functioning eyes, instead using echolocation to find their way around. Their evolutions instead utilize their sonic capabilities for offensive purposes. Scientists have noted that this repurposing is similar to that of the Pokémon Noivern, who similarly began using their sonar to defend themselves in an example of convergent evolution.","These odd-looking Pokémon are in fact highly diverged lagomorphs, distant relatives of Lopunny and the Nidoran family. Whismur’s large ears are a remnant of this evolutionary heritage (though they also help them hear very well). They have adapted to life in dark caves; troglodytic Whismur don’t even have functioning eyes, instead using echolocation to find their way around. Their evolutions instead utilize their sonic capabilities for offensive purposes. Scientists have noted that this repurposing is similar to that of the Pokémon Noivern, who similarly began using their sonar to defend themselves in an example of convergent evolution.","Hariyama are thought to be related to many other humanoid Fighting-types, like the Tyrogue family and Conkeldurr. Unique amongst its relatives, these Pokémon store copious amounts of adipose tissue all around their bodies, creating an insulating layer of fat that protects them from temperature extremes as well as softening incoming blows. They specialize in slow, but powerful techniques that can send opponents reeling. Some human enthusiasts have attempted to mimic their fighting style, preparing for matches with carefully-planned, calorie-dense diets and using their weight to their advantage while wrestling.","Hariyama are thought to be related to many other humanoid Fighting-types, like the Tyrogue family and Conkeldurr. Unique amongst its relatives, these Pokémon store copious amounts of adipose tissue all around their bodies, creating an insulating layer of fat that protects them from temperature extremes as well as softening incoming blows. They specialize in slow, but powerful techniques that can send opponents reeling. Some human enthusiasts have attempted to mimic their fighting style, preparing for matches with carefully-planned, calorie-dense diets and using their weight to their advantage while wrestling.","Azumarill are lagomorphs most closely related to Wigglytuff and Lopunny. Whereas the Igglybuff has air sacs that allow them to inflate, the Azumarill line (in addition to strong lungs) also has oil sacs that aid them in swimming. Azurill are the only known Pokémon to undergo protogyny, a bizarre phenomenon in which a third of female Azurill become male upon evolution. Since Azurill themselves are unable to breed, researchers have ruled out reproductive benefits for such an adaptation. The current theory suggests that this occurrence may simply be due to a mutated sex allele in some female Azurill that would normally make them male but is not expressed until evolution.","The mysterious Pokémon have been closely studied for decades. They are almost sessile, moving very slowly and very rarely. The Rock-type Nosepass seem to actively require a large intake of magnetized iron in order to evolve into the partly Steel-type Probopass. Recent studies suggest that these Pokémon function almost like decomposers for Steel-type Pokémon; hundreds of Nosepass were found congregated around an abandoned mining site, having consumed almost all of the tools and materials in the area. They also have been observed feeding on the carcasses of deceased Steel-types near their homes.","Delcatty is part of the “small cat” group alongside Purugly and possibly Persian; these feline Pokémon, as their names suggest, are smaller than their “big cat” brethren. They also seem to have adapted particularly well to domestic life with humans. Delcatty in particular seem ill-suited to life in the wild, and it is a mystery to science how they have survived for so long when they don’t seem to even try to defend themselves in the wild. The species seems to have quite literally survived by being adorable, squeaking out a feral existence long enough for humans to come around and decide they were worth caring for and defending.","Delcatty is part of the “small cat” group alongside Purugly and possibly Persian; these feline Pokémon, as their names suggest, are smaller than their “big cat” brethren. They also seem to have adapted particularly well to domestic life with humans. Delcatty in particular seem ill-suited to life in the wild, and it is a mystery to science how they have survived for so long when they don’t seem to even try to defend themselves in the wild. The species seems to have quite literally survived by being adorable, squeaking out a feral existence long enough for humans to come around and decide they were worth caring for and defending.","Many people once thought that these cryptic Pokémon were extraterrestrial in origin; even today, some conspiracists still champion this theory as true. Modern science has classified the species as a very unique relative of the primates, adapted to living in dark caves on a diet of rocks and minerals. The jewels encrusting their skin form as excess minerals are secreted from their bodies and crystallize over time. Researchers have no good theories explaining their odd movement, however. Their jittery twitching and glinting eyes make them seem wholly unnatural, so it is easy to see why some believe that they are unearthly beings.","These vaguely humanoid Pokémon are classified with other fae species like Ralts and Hatenna. Most people know Mawile for the huge, gaping jaw-like horns that jut out from their heads. These horns are metallic, but unusually light; studies show that their internal structure under a microscope resembles a honeycomb, giving them both stability and lightness. However, the “bite” force from these pseudo-jaws is one of the strongest known to man, capable of pulverizing stone and metal. The sharp spikes lining the lips of these horns function like teeth to hold onto prey and prevent their escape.","A member of the saurians, Aggron are the only extant ornithischians known today; its relatives Rampardos and Bastiodon both went extinct a hundred million years ago. Scientists believe that they survived because they had adapted to feed on inorganic material--iron--rather than plant matter. Thus, when an ice age wiped out much of the world’s fauna, these Pokémon were able to survive while their herbivorous relatives could not. Aggron fulfill a similar role in mountainous regions as Sceptile and Venusaur do in forested ones, restoring their habitats and protecting them from destruction.","A member of the saurians, Aggron are the only extant ornithischians known today; its relatives Rampardos and Bastiodon both went extinct a hundred million years ago. Scientists believe that they survived because they had adapted to feed on inorganic material--iron--rather than plant matter. Thus, when an ice age wiped out much of the world’s fauna, these Pokémon were able to survive while their herbivorous relatives could not. Aggron fulfill a similar role in mountainous regions as Sceptile and Venusaur do in forested ones, restoring their habitats and protecting them from destruction.","A member of the saurians, Aggron are the only extant ornithischians known today; its relatives Rampardos and Bastiodon both went extinct a hundred million years ago. Scientists believe that they survived because they had adapted to feed on inorganic material--iron--rather than plant matter. Thus, when an ice age wiped out much of the world’s fauna, these Pokémon were able to survive while their herbivorous relatives could not. Aggron fulfill a similar role in mountainous regions as Sceptile and Venusaur do in forested ones, restoring their habitats and protecting them from destruction.","The humanoid Medicham are famed for their mental resolve and physical capabilities. They are thought to be a relative of Machamp, trading in some raw physical strength for intellectual prowess. Many people seek to emulate these Pokémon in meditation, hoping to seek peace or enlightenment. Some ascetics go as far as to completely adopt their lifestyle, spending their lives fasting and meditating alongside them. It is said that only one human has ever completely achieved the same transcendent state of existence as these Pokémon, having reached it under a mountain tree alongside his own Medicham.","The humanoid Medicham are famed for their mental resolve and physical capabilities. They are thought to be a relative of Machamp, trading in some raw physical strength for intellectual prowess. Many people seek to emulate these Pokémon in meditation, hoping to seek peace or enlightenment. Some ascetics go as far as to completely adopt their lifestyle, spending their lives fasting and meditating alongside them. It is said that only one human has ever completely achieved the same transcendent state of existence as these Pokémon, having reached it under a mountain tree alongside his own Medicham.","Manectric are thought to be among the earliest-diverging canines, making them the feral relatives of the tamer Stoutland, Granbull, and Boltund; they are also evolutionarily close to Houndoom and Lycanroc. Oddly, these Electric-type Pokémon are perhaps most important for their fiery contributions to their habitats. The brushfires they cause with lightning bolts prevent large trees from growing and outcompeting short grasses for resources, maintaining their grassland homes. The way that Electrike use stored static electricity to stimulate their muscles is also of interest to some scientists, who see potential for the use of similar voltage in physical therapy.","Manectric are thought to be among the earliest-diverging canines, making them the feral relatives of the tamer Stoutland, Granbull, and Boltund; they are also evolutionarily close to Houndoom and Lycanroc. Oddly, these Electric-type Pokémon are perhaps most important for their fiery contributions to their habitats. The brushfires they cause with lightning bolts prevent large trees from growing and outcompeting short grasses for resources, maintaining their grassland homes. The way that Electrike use stored static electricity to stimulate their muscles is also of interest to some scientists, who see potential for the use of similar voltage in physical therapy.","Plusle and Minun are very close relatives of Raichu. Evolutionarily, they seem to have initially diverged to favor different food sources--Plusle can climb trees for food while Minun can forage on the ground, using their agility to evade predators. However, they have also evolved to work together in the wild. These Pokémon are still considered different species because they do not naturally mate with each other; Plusle mate with Plusle and Minun with Minun; however, only the females remains with their young, raising them with their opposite partner until they can fend for themselves. Young Plusle remain with their siblings while Minun venture out in search of Plusle.","Plusle and Minun are very close relatives of Raichu. Evolutionarily, they seem to have initially diverged to favor different food sources--Plusle can climb trees for food while Minun can forage on the ground, using their agility to evade predators. However, they have also evolved to work together in the wild. These Pokémon are still considered different species because they do not naturally mate with each other; Plusle mate with Plusle and Minun with Minun; however, only the females remains with their young, raising them with their opposite partner until they can fend for themselves. Young Plusle remain with their siblings while Minun venture out in search of Plusle.","These coleopterans are relatives of Ledian. Much like the Nidoran family, Volbeat and Illumise are considered different Pokémon largely as a relic of past misconceptions; their morphological differences led the scientists who first discovered them to think they were different species, and the distinction has stuck even to this day. Volbeat displays are often seen as a hallmark of the summer season; they are also used as one of the first signs of water pollution. Since these Pokémon dislike dirty ponds and will migrate to new ones if their current ones are sullied, a summer without Volbeat displays is a warning of declining water quality.","These coleopterans are relatives of Ledian. Much like the Nidoran family, Volbeat and Illumise are considered different Pokémon largely as a relic of past misconceptions; their morphological differences led the scientists who first discovered them to think they were different species, and the distinction has stuck even to this day. Volbeat displays are often seen as a hallmark of the summer season; they are also used as one of the first signs of water pollution. Since these Pokémon dislike dirty ponds and will migrate to new ones if their current ones are sullied, a summer without Volbeat displays is a warning of declining water quality.","The Budew family is a rosid; the clade even derives its name from Roselia and Roserade. Its closest relative is Cherrim. These Pokémon are associated with grace and beauty, but also pain and poison. They are a favorite of poets and writers as symbols of this duality. Budew pollen is one of the most common allergens in both people and Pokémon, triggering seasonal attacks every spring. Because Budew are so numerous, their pollen can cause significant health issues when they open. However, because they are an important food source for larger Pokémon, efforts to control Budew populations have faced significant backlash.","These relatively simple Pokémon are really nothing more than giant stomachs in a jellylike-matrix of cells. They possess very primitive hearts, lungs, and eyes, but most of these organs are barely even functional. In the evolutionary tree, the Gulpin family diverges very close to its base as arguably one of the most primitive multi-cellular Pokémon. More recent studies have led scientists to hypothesize that Swalot in fact descended from a more “complex” Pokémon with complete organ systems; however, all but the digestive system withered away into vestigial remnants in order to maximize stomach capacity.","These relatively simple Pokémon are really nothing more than giant stomachs in a jellylike-matrix of cells. They possess very primitive hearts, lungs, and eyes, but most of these organs are barely even functional. In the evolutionary tree, the Gulpin family diverges very close to its base as arguably one of the most primitive multi-cellular Pokémon. More recent studies have led scientists to hypothesize that Swalot in fact descended from a more “complex” Pokémon with complete organ systems; however, all but the digestive system withered away into vestigial remnants in order to maximize stomach capacity.","These fearsome Pokémon are cartilaginous fish; although they don’t resemble one another, Sharpedo and Mantine are in fact close relatives. Scientists have also tentatively placed Garchomp alongside these Pokémon as a terrestrial descendant; both species have been around for millions of years. Sharpedo are feared by people across the globe for their ferocity and brutality. This spurred some organizations to begin hunting them in an effort to curb their numbers. Some regions also treasure their fins as delicacies. Sharpedo play an important role in ocean ecosystems as apex predators, however, and such practices have been met with extreme resistance.","These fearsome Pokémon are cartilaginous fish; although they don’t resemble one another, Sharpedo and Mantine are in fact close relatives. Scientists have also tentatively placed Garchomp alongside these Pokémon as a terrestrial descendant; both species have been around for millions of years. Sharpedo are feared by people across the globe for their ferocity and brutality. This spurred some organizations to begin hunting them in an effort to curb their numbers. Some regions also treasure their fins as delicacies. Sharpedo play an important role in ocean ecosystems as apex predators, however, and such practices have been met with extreme resistance.","These aquatic Pokémon are actually mammals; surprisingly, their closest extant relative is the desert-dwelling Hippowdon. Wailord is famous for being the largest Pokémon known to man, but it is unusually light for its size. These Pokémon are coated in a thick layer of insulating blubber that is riddled with pockets of air; they can fill and empty these pockets with seawater to alter their density. Wailmer use this to bounce around on beaches, while Wailord expel and swallow water to leap into the air or dive deep into the ocean’s depths. These Pokémon were once hunted for their blubber, but declining numbers and demand have luckily slowed this practice.","These aquatic Pokémon are actually mammals; surprisingly, their closest extant relative is the desert-dwelling Hippowdon. Wailord is famous for being the largest Pokémon known to man, but it is unusually light for its size. These Pokémon are coated in a thick layer of insulating blubber that is riddled with pockets of air; they can fill and empty these pockets with seawater to alter their density. Wailmer use this to bounce around on beaches, while Wailord expel and swallow water to leap into the air or dive deep into the ocean’s depths. These Pokémon were once hunted for their blubber, but declining numbers and demand have luckily slowed this practice.","Camerupt is an artiodactyl, making it somewhat related to Sawsbuck and Stantler. It is notable for its magma-storing humps, which are reinforced with modified bone that insulates the magma from outside air and prevents it from cooling. This bone is so good at insulation that these Pokémon can remain in temperate conditions for days before they run the risk of hardened lava. Much like a condiment squeeze bottle, repeated eruptions gradually cake Camerupt humps with dried lava until they nearly seal up. This forces gas to build up within them before finally exploding, much like a real volcano.","Camerupt is an artiodactyl, making it somewhat related to Sawsbuck and Stantler. It is notable for its magma-storing humps, which are reinforced with modified bone that insulates the magma from outside air and prevents it from cooling. This bone is so good at insulation that these Pokémon can remain in temperate conditions for days before they run the risk of hardened lava. Much like a condiment squeeze bottle, repeated eruptions gradually cake Camerupt humps with dried lava until they nearly seal up. This forces gas to build up within them before finally exploding, much like a real volcano.","They like humans and may even help them out if they need aid. ","Grumpig are close relatives of Emboar, distinguished by their unique, elongated snouts. Contrary to popular belief, they are not related to Mamoswine, who in fact share more in common with the similarly-tusked Donphan. Spoink are famous for bouncing continuously, using this motion to pump blood through their bodies. This compensates for their unusually small hearts, which in turn enable them to possess very large brains for their size. Spoink collect the pearls that Clamperl discard when they evolve, an unusual practice that they ditch when they become Grumpig. When Spoink evolve, they also drop their pearls for future Spoink to pick up and use.","Grumpig are close relatives of Emboar, distinguished by their unique, elongated snouts. Contrary to popular belief, they are not related to Mamoswine, who in fact share more in common with the similarly-tusked Donphan. Spoink are famous for bouncing continuously, using this motion to pump blood through their bodies. This compensates for their unusually small hearts, which in turn enable them to possess very large brains for their size. Spoink collect the pearls that Clamperl discard when they evolve, an unusual practice that they ditch when they become Grumpig. When Spoink evolve, they also drop their pearls for future Spoink to pick up and use.","Although they may superficially resemble ursine Pokémon like Beartic, Spinda in fact are the sole member of their own family, being most closely related to Linoone. No two Spinda have the same spot pattern. Scientists have concluded that Spinda patterns aren’t strongly based in genetics; the patterns of parent Spinda don’t seem to affect that of their offspring. Instead, the patterns appear to be created early on in embryonic development, though the mechanism is still unknown. These Pokémon are perhaps most famous for a recent news story in which a renowned researcher, having disappeared years ago, was found dancing drunkenly alongside a group of Spinda.","Trapinch and its evolutions are all insects, though Flygon may not look the part. They are part of their own unique order, but are more closely related to lepidopterans like Beautifly, Dustox, and Vivillon rather than Yanmega (despite Vibrava’s many similarities to it). This family undergoes some drastic changes during evolution, with Vibrava sprouting wings and Flygon heavily modifying its own exoskeleton, developing tiny plates that more closely resemble scales than a carapace. This design grants them much more flexibility while still shielding their bodies from harsh desert sands. ","Trapinch and its evolutions are all insects, though Flygon may not look the part. They are part of their own unique order, but are more closely related to lepidopterans like Beautifly, Dustox, and Vivillon rather than Yanmega (despite Vibrava’s many similarities to it). This family undergoes some drastic changes during evolution, with Vibrava sprouting wings and Flygon heavily modifying its own exoskeleton, developing tiny plates that more closely resemble scales than a carapace. This design grants them much more flexibility while still shielding their bodies from harsh desert sands. ","Trapinch and its evolutions are all insects, though Flygon may not look the part. They are part of their own unique order, but are more closely related to lepidopterans like Beautifly, Dustox, and Vivillon rather than Yanmega (despite Vibrava’s many similarities to it). This family undergoes some drastic changes during evolution, with Vibrava sprouting wings and Flygon heavily modifying its own exoskeleton, developing tiny plates that more closely resemble scales than a carapace. This design grants them much more flexibility while still shielding their bodies from harsh desert sands. ","These cactus Pokémon are evidently very close relatives to Maractus; it comes as a surprise to many, though, that they are also relatives of carnivorous plant Pokémon like Victreebel and Tangrowth as well. Very well-adapted to life in dry deserts, these Pokémon can sustain themselves on very little water. They conserve as much energy as possible--Cacnea wait for prey to come to them, while Cacturne wait for the sweltering sun to set before hunting. Cacturne sap is very thick due to its low moisture content; when left to dry, it develops a gritty texture that likely spawned the myth of these Pokémon having sand for blood.","These cactus Pokémon are evidently very close relatives to Maractus; it comes as a surprise to many, though, that they are also relatives of carnivorous plant Pokémon like Victreebel and Tangrowth as well. Very well-adapted to life in dry deserts, these Pokémon can sustain themselves on very little water. They conserve as much energy as possible--Cacnea wait for prey to come to them, while Cacturne wait for the sweltering sun to set before hunting. Cacturne sap is very thick due to its low moisture content; when left to dry, it develops a gritty texture that likely spawned the myth of these Pokémon having sand for blood.","As passerines, Altaria is related to songbirds like Swellow and more distantly Chatot. They are notable for their special, cottony feathers, which are spread so they can catch and trap air while these Pokémon are flying. They can also trap dirt and debris, however, so these Pokémon must carefully preen and rinse their wings before flight. This gives them their unique, pillowy texture and also helps them stay aloft among the clouds. Altaria’s Dragon-typing has also been subject to quite a bit of research recently. Scientists have postulated that it may have to do with a reactivated dormant gene passed on from the reptiles that all avian Pokémon descended from.","As passerines, Altaria is related to songbirds like Swellow and more distantly Chatot. They are notable for their special, cottony feathers, which are spread so they can catch and trap air while these Pokémon are flying. They can also trap dirt and debris, however, so these Pokémon must carefully preen and rinse their wings before flight. This gives them their unique, pillowy texture and also helps them stay aloft among the clouds. Altaria’s Dragon-typing has also been subject to quite a bit of research recently. Scientists have postulated that it may have to do with a reactivated dormant gene passed on from the reptiles that all avian Pokémon descended from.","Zangoose are relatives of Watchog, though they are even more closely related to Gumshoos. They are most famous for their intense, enduring rival with the Pokémon Seviper. Scientists aren’t sure why these Pokémon detest each other so much; neither preys on the other, and the two species will fight even when resources are abundant. Research strongly suggests that this rivalry is genetically inherited, so is is likely that it is a remnant of a period when Zangoose and Seviper did indeed either prey on one another or compete for resources. Zangoose have evolved a resistance to poisoning as a result of an evolutionary arms race with Seviper.","The serpentine Seviper are close relatives of Arbok and Serperior, though they lack the hollow fangs of the latter two Pokémon. They also distinguish themselves with a unique, accordion-like natural body posture. They often can be seen inching along the ground in this shape rather than slithering, though they will flatten their bodies to chase and constrict prey. These Pokémon are well-known for their bitter rivalry with the Pokémon Zangoose. As an adaptation to protect themselves against the sharp claws of their archenemies, these Pokémon can shed their skins and heal wounds rapidly. They are intelligent creatures known to work together to take down strong prey.","Lunatone and Solrock are both mysterious Pokémon that scientists don’t know much about. Although they share many similarities in composition and  habitat, they are tentatively thought to be different species because of their drastic contrast in physical appearance, abilities, and lifestyle. Most obviously, Lunatone are closely affiliated with the moon while Solrock are associated with the sun. Many strongly believe that these Pokémon have extraterrestrial origins, and while scientists have not been able to prove this, they have been unable to refute it as well; one supporting piece of evidence is that they contain many rare minerals commonly found in meteorites.","Lunatone and Solrock are both mysterious Pokémon that scientists don’t know much about. Although they share many similarities in composition and  habitat, they are tentatively thought to be different species because of their drastic contrast in physical appearance, abilities, and lifestyle. Most obviously, Lunatone are closely affiliated with the moon while Solrock are associated with the sun. Many strongly believe that these Pokémon have extraterrestrial origins, and while scientists have not been able to prove this, they have been unable to refute it as well; one supporting piece of evidence is that they contain many rare minerals commonly found in meteorites.","Whiscash is a ray-finned fish that is very closely related to Seaking as well as Gyarados; the latter even shares its characteristic barbs. These Pokémon share a rocky relationship with humans; on one hand, they can trigger large earthquakes that can cause mild structural damage in nearby buildings. On the other, Barboach (and even Whiscash for some more daring people) are very popular catches among freshwater fishermen; some anglers even opt to catch these slippery Pokémon by hand. Whiscash are one of the only pond Pokémon that can fend off wild Crawdaunt alone; this makes them important in protecting bodies of water from this overbearing species.","Whiscash is a ray-finned fish that is very closely related to Seaking as well as Gyarados; the latter even shares its characteristic barbs. These Pokémon share a rocky relationship with humans; on one hand, they can trigger large earthquakes that can cause mild structural damage in nearby buildings. On the other, Barboach (and even Whiscash for some more daring people) are very popular catches among freshwater fishermen; some anglers even opt to catch these slippery Pokémon by hand. Whiscash are one of the only pond Pokémon that can fend off wild Crawdaunt alone; this makes them important in protecting bodies of water from this overbearing species.","These arthropods are close relatives of Kingler and Crustle, adapted to life in brackish freshwater environments (though they can survive in streams and rivers as well). They are infamous for invading and taking over ponds, literally throwing out native species. Their hardiness and lack of natural predators have made them the most widespread invasive Pokémon in the world. Many conservation organizations have encouraged people to catch and eat wild Corphish, but even this practice has not made a significant dent in their numbers. It is illegal to release Corphish or Crawdaunt into any pond or lake other than ones specifically designated by the Pokémon League.","These arthropods are close relatives of Kingler and Crustle, adapted to life in brackish freshwater environments (though they can survive in streams and rivers as well). They are infamous for invading and taking over ponds, literally throwing out native species. Their hardiness and lack of natural predators have made them the most widespread invasive Pokémon in the world. Many conservation organizations have encouraged people to catch and eat wild Corphish, but even this practice has not made a significant dent in their numbers. It is illegal to release Corphish or Crawdaunt into any pond or lake other than ones specifically designated by the Pokémon League.","Claydol are very mysterious Pokémon that scientists currently know very little about. They are strongly associated with ancient desert civilizations, with many believing that such ancient peoples may have even created them. They have many parallels with Sigilyph, another clay-based Pokémon that also inhabits desert ruins. Whether the two species were created by the same group of people or two coincidentally similar ideas is unknown. A sizable group of theorists believe that Baltoy and Claydol have extraterrestrial origins, purporting that their existence is evidence of alien life having visited and aided humanity some time in the past.","Claydol are very mysterious Pokémon that scientists currently know very little about. They are strongly associated with ancient desert civilizations, with many believing that such ancient peoples may have even created them. They have many parallels with Sigilyph, another clay-based Pokémon that also inhabits desert ruins. Whether the two species were created by the same group of people or two coincidentally similar ideas is unknown. A sizable group of theorists believe that Baltoy and Claydol have extraterrestrial origins, purporting that their existence is evidence of alien life having visited and aided humanity some time in the past.","At a first glance, it may seem like these ancient, tentacled Pokémon are ancestors of the modern-day Tentacruel and Jellicent. However, they are actually relatives of the extant Starmie. Many also mistakenly believe that the sessile Lileep are plants, especially since they are Grass-types. They are thought to have been one of the most common Pokémon in warm oceans while they were alive, spreading themselves out on the sea floor to avoid competition but still remaining relatively close together. This is supported by the fact that Root Fossils are often found clumped together in large numbers. ","At a first glance, it may seem like these ancient, tentacled Pokémon are ancestors of the modern-day Tentacruel and Jellicent. However, they are actually relatives of the extant Starmie. Many also mistakenly believe that the sessile Lileep are plants, especially since they are Grass-types. They are thought to have been one of the most common Pokémon in warm oceans while they were alive, spreading themselves out on the sea floor to avoid competition but still remaining relatively close together. This is supported by the fact that Root Fossils are often found clumped together in large numbers. ","Armaldo is thought to be closely related to some of the first arthropods, even more primitive than Kabutops (though Armaldo itself didn’t evolve until well after Kabutops went extinct). They are not only notable for being amphibious, but perhaps even more importantly because Anorith seem to have adapted to aquatic life from a terrestrial one. Their feathers actually appear to be modified feet; when they evolve into Armaldo, they regain their limbs and can walk on land once again. Modern scientists are still baffled by this phenomenon, but have hypothesized that being aquatic for some of their lifespan may have benefited Armaldo in energy efficiency.","Armaldo is thought to be closely related to some of the first arthropods, even more primitive than Kabutops (though Armaldo itself didn’t evolve until well after Kabutops went extinct). They are not only notable for being amphibious, but perhaps even more importantly because Anorith seem to have adapted to aquatic life from a terrestrial one. Their feathers actually appear to be modified feet; when they evolve into Armaldo, they regain their limbs and can walk on land once again. Modern scientists are still baffled by this phenomenon, but have hypothesized that being aquatic for some of their lifespan may have benefited Armaldo in energy efficiency.","Milotic are often seen as parallels to Gyarados; both are aquatic, serpentine Pokémon that evolve from much weaker pre-evolutions. While Gyarados represent atrocity and brutality, Milotic embody grace and beauty. While both are ray-finned fish, Gyarados is actually more closely related to Seaking or Whiscash than Milotic. Feebas are notorious for being difficult to find despite being both weak and abundant; this in turn makes Milotic even rarer catches. When a Feebas hotspot is found, fishermen and trainers will flock to it; eventually, the located school of Feebas will flee to another spot, forcing people to go searching once again.","Milotic are often seen as parallels to Gyarados; both are aquatic, serpentine Pokémon that evolve from much weaker pre-evolutions. While Gyarados represent atrocity and brutality, Milotic embody grace and beauty. While both are ray-finned fish, Gyarados is actually more closely related to Seaking or Whiscash than Milotic. Feebas are notorious for being difficult to find despite being both weak and abundant; this in turn makes Milotic even rarer catches. When a Feebas hotspot is found, fishermen and trainers will flock to it; eventually, the located school of Feebas will flee to another spot, forcing people to go searching once again.","Castform have been heralded as the first “true” artificial organic Pokémon; although Porygon were created first, they were entirely digital in origin whereas Castform are mostly water-based. These Pokémon are sensitive to changes in the weather, changing form to suit surrounding conditions. Their molecules function similarly to water, but are uniquely locked into a neutral, solid state under normal conditions; in warm sunlight, they heat up into warm steam and cause Castform to assume their Sunny Forms. Upon contact with rainwater, they “release” themselves andflow freely in their Rainy Forms. In cold weather, they freeze up to enter their Snowy Forms.","Deceptive Kecleon are very close relatives of wily Inteleon. They are most famous for their color-changing abilities. This technique is made possible by chromatophores just beneath their skin, which can release varying amounts of different pigments to create different hues. The conspicuous red bands on their bellies lack these chromatophores; scientists aren’t sure why this is, but they have hypothesized that they may allow Kecleon to identify one another even when camouflaged. Their curious ability to change their own typings is also being intensely studied; it is likely that they have additional, chromatophore-like cells that grant them this ability.","Banette are thought to be spiritual Pokémon like Gengar or Mismagius contained within a cloth membrane. While scientists don’t know how these amorphous creatures are related, or if they are related at all, they do acknowledge that they share their fabric exteriors with the Pokémon Dusknoir. Banette are a major figure in urban legends and the contemporary horror genre, where they are portrayed as possessed children’s toys. These Pokémon star in two of the top ten horror films by box office success, including a major film from Unova’s Pokéstar Studios with a large cult following.","Banette are thought to be spiritual Pokémon like Gengar or Mismagius contained within a cloth membrane. While scientists don’t know how these amorphous creatures are related, or if they are related at all, they do acknowledge that they share their fabric exteriors with the Pokémon Dusknoir. Banette are a major figure in urban legends and the contemporary horror genre, where they are portrayed as possessed children’s toys. These Pokémon star in two of the top ten horror films by box office success, including a major film from Unova’s Pokéstar Studios with a large cult following.","These Pokémon are both feared and admired for their supernatural abilities. Parents often warn their children that Duskull will kidnap them if they misbehave; Dusclops are said to send those that gaze into their eyes into purgatory; Dusknoir are thought to ferry pure souls to the land of the dead. Dusknoir are thought to be relatives of Banette, with whom they share a similar, cloth-like membrane. Although many Ghost-types are associated with death, this family is uniquely associated with human spirits; some believe Dusknoir even receive orders from a higher power to take specific human souls to the spirit world at certain times.","These Pokémon are both feared and admired for their supernatural abilities. Parents often warn their children that Duskull will kidnap them if they misbehave; Dusclops are said to send those that gaze into their eyes into purgatory; Dusknoir are thought to ferry pure souls to the land of the dead. Dusknoir are thought to be relatives of Banette, with whom they share a similar, cloth-like membrane. Although many Ghost-types are associated with death, this family is uniquely associated with human spirits; some believe Dusknoir even receive orders from a higher power to take specific human souls to the spirit world at certain times.","Tropius are very close relatives of Meganium and Aurorus, all of which comprise the sauropodian dinosaurs. They are characterized by the fruits that grow around their necks; this species is entirely responsible for the propagation of this fruit, eating and dispersing its seeds as they soar around. This plant has evolved to grow differently when exposed to certain chemical signals in Tropius; the leaves forming this Pokémon’s wings, for instance, form when this pathway is triggered. The undersides of their necks also fruit and disperse pollen; the pollen not only fertilizes the plants of other Tropius, but fertilizes normal fruit trees as well.","Chingling and Chimecho are known their musical capabilities; Chingling can produce a ringing jingle while Chimecho can make a beautiful, sparkling chime. Their ability to make noises like brass percussion instruments has led many to speculate that they may be related to Bronzong. These Pokémon have organic, fleshy appendages that Bronzong lack, however, and their resonating structures similarly seem natural in origin. Because Chimecho often appear in cemeteries, some believe that they may have some affiliation with the spirit world. It is said that their ethereal cries help soothe anguished souls and guide them to the land of the dead.","Absol are feliform hunters, relatives of their fellow Dark-type Mightyena. Their characteristic horns are made of keratin, which also composes their claws and tails. Much folklore surrounds these mysterious Pokémon, as many believe that their appearance will bring impending disaster. These Pokémon are very intelligent and capable of rational thought. Scientists are unsure why they continue to warn people of catastrophes even after they are blamed for them; however, they have discovered that Absol warn all life around them before disasters, not only humans. Other Pokémon seem to take their messages seriously, fleeing the area when Absol appear.","Wynaut and Wobbuffet seem to be very primitive Pokémon evolution-wise. Despite their upright statures, they are invertebrates. Research strongly suggests that their true brains--and most vital organs, for that matter--lie in their tails; the blue structures once thought to be their bodies are in fact elaborate decoys. A rudimentary set of nerves, cartilage, and an esophagus allow them to move, eat, and vocalize; however, the bulk of both systems lies in their tails. Though the tails can survive without their decoys, they to lose their countering abilities and become helpless if separated. They seem to be capable of immobilizing foes with strong psychic powers if threatened.","These icy Pokémon can inhabit even the coldest areas of the world. Because they are rarely sighted, many cultures have different pieces of folklore surrounding each of these Pokémon. Alpine communities associate Snorunt with snow and good fortune, for instance, and warn travelers of the mysterious Froslass. Scientists have hypothesized that Snorunt may have originally been a cave-dwelling Rock-type that adapted to the frozen caverns. This is primarily supported by the fact that Glalie are composed mostly of rock, despite being Ice-types. Recent studies also show that Froslass have rocky cores supporting them as well.","These icy Pokémon can inhabit even the coldest areas of the world. Because they are rarely sighted, many cultures have different pieces of folklore surrounding each of these Pokémon. Alpine communities associate Snorunt with snow and good fortune, for instance, and warn travelers of the mysterious Froslass. Scientists have hypothesized that Snorunt may have originally been a cave-dwelling Rock-type that adapted to the frozen caverns. This is primarily supported by the fact that Glalie are composed mostly of rock, despite being Ice-types. Recent studies also show that Froslass have rocky cores supporting them as well.","These Pokémon are pinnipeds, making them relatives of Samurott. They are a common representative of arctic habitats; large colonies of them inhabit ice floes and glaciers. While many believe they are related to the similar-looking Dewgong, with whom they share their typing and habitat, Dewgong are actually in a separate order entirely. Spheal and Sealeo are popular Pokémon in circuses due to their playfulness and the latter’s proficiency in learning tricks. These polar Pokémon do not fare well in temperate climates, however, leading many Pokémon rights activists to protest this practice as Pokémon abuse.","These Pokémon are pinnipeds, making them relatives of Samurott. They are a common representative of arctic habitats; large colonies of them inhabit ice floes and glaciers. While many believe they are related to the similar-looking Dewgong, with whom they share their typing and habitat, Dewgong are actually in a separate order entirely. Spheal and Sealeo are popular Pokémon in circuses due to their playfulness and the latter’s proficiency in learning tricks. These polar Pokémon do not fare well in temperate climates, however, leading many Pokémon rights activists to protest this practice as Pokémon abuse.","These Pokémon are pinnipeds, making them relatives of Samurott. They are a common representative of arctic habitats; large colonies of them inhabit ice floes and glaciers. While many believe they are related to the similar-looking Dewgong, with whom they share their typing and habitat, Dewgong are actually in a separate order entirely. Spheal and Sealeo are popular Pokémon in circuses due to their playfulness and the latter’s proficiency in learning tricks. These polar Pokémon do not fare well in temperate climates, however, leading many Pokémon rights activists to protest this practice as Pokémon abuse.","The evolution of shelled Clamperl into free-swimming Huntail and Gorebyss has baffled many for years. Analyses of their fleshy blue bodies have revealed that the family is actually part of the ray-finned fishes, making them relatives of Lanturn rather than Cloyster. Clamperl shells are an example of convergent evolution with Cloyster; their structure and how they are attached to their bodies differ radically from true bivalves. Distinguished by their lack of pelvic fins, scientists are still trying to learn more about elusive Huntail and Gorebyss. Researchers also know little about the connections, both physiological and evolutionary, between Clamperl’s bodies, pearls, and shells.","The evolution of shelled Clamperl into free-swimming Huntail and Gorebyss has baffled many for years. Analyses of their fleshy blue bodies have revealed that the family is actually part of the ray-finned fishes, making them relatives of Lanturn rather than Cloyster. Clamperl shells are an example of convergent evolution with Cloyster; their structure and how they are attached to their bodies differ radically from true bivalves. Distinguished by their lack of pelvic fins, scientists are still trying to learn more about elusive Huntail and Gorebyss. Researchers also know little about the connections, both physiological and evolutionary, between Clamperl’s bodies, pearls, and shells.","The evolution of shelled Clamperl into free-swimming Huntail and Gorebyss has baffled many for years. Analyses of their fleshy blue bodies have revealed that the family is actually part of the ray-finned fishes, making them relatives of Lanturn rather than Cloyster. Clamperl shells are an example of convergent evolution with Cloyster; their structure and how they are attached to their bodies differ radically from true bivalves. Distinguished by their lack of pelvic fins, scientists are still trying to learn more about elusive Huntail and Gorebyss. Researchers also know little about the connections, both physiological and evolutionary, between Clamperl’s bodies, pearls, and shells.","Relicanth are the sole extant example of a lobe-finned fish, an ancient class that modern tetrapods are believed to descend from. Thus, these Pokémon in a sense are more like ancestors of modern amphibians, reptiles, and mammals rather than other fish. These “living fossils” were alive alongside more traditional fossil Pokémon like Lileep and Anorith; in fact, Relicanth fossils are sometimes found alongside Root and Claw Fossils. The discovery of Relicanth fueled many conspiracy theories purporting that other ancient Pokémon, thought to be long-extinct, may still be inhabiting the deepest reaches of our oceans. These theories have yet to be proven, however.","Luvdisc are ray-finned fishes notable for their odd body shape; they lack any fins whatsoever, giving them their distinct heart-shaped bodies. Though some believe they are related to Alomomola, the latter species are actually closer relatives of Qwilfish. Luvdisc are a valuable food source for tropical Pokémon; they school in large numbers and pose virtually no threat to predators. Though they are often seen as symbols of love, and their scales are coveted by collectors, these Pokémon are also infamous for being very poor in battle. Some even believe that the tradition of lovers gifting each other Luvdisc began as a way for fishermen to pawn off these weak Pokémon.","Salamence are often seen as the archetypical member of the group Draconidae--winged, reptilian, and capable of breathing fire. They are related to Charizard and Hydreigon. Bagon are famous for their burning desire to fly; scientists believe this innate longing encourages them to seek out the cliffs and ledges that will suit them well upon evolution, as Salamence lay their eggs deep within caverns where there is little room to fly. Popular culture purports that it is this desire that causes them to sprout wings upon evolution, though there is little science supporting this notion. Salamence are a popular figure in Kalosian folklore, appearing in opposition to medieval heroes.","Salamence are often seen as the archetypical member of the group Draconidae--winged, reptilian, and capable of breathing fire. They are related to Charizard and Hydreigon. Bagon are famous for their burning desire to fly; scientists believe this innate longing encourages them to seek out the cliffs and ledges that will suit them well upon evolution, as Salamence lay their eggs deep within caverns where there is little room to fly. Popular culture purports that it is this desire that causes them to sprout wings upon evolution, though there is little science supporting this notion. Salamence are a popular figure in Kalosian folklore, appearing in opposition to medieval heroes.","Salamence are often seen as the archetypical member of the group Draconidae--winged, reptilian, and capable of breathing fire. They are related to Charizard and Hydreigon. Bagon are famous for their burning desire to fly; scientists believe this innate longing encourages them to seek out the cliffs and ledges that will suit them well upon evolution, as Salamence lay their eggs deep within caverns where there is little room to fly. Popular culture purports that it is this desire that causes them to sprout wings upon evolution, though there is little science supporting this notion. Salamence are a popular figure in Kalosian folklore, appearing in opposition to medieval heroes.","These inorganic Pokémon are lauded for their incredible intellect. While Beldum are of average intelligence for Psychic-types, their capacity for analyzation doubles and then quadruples as they evolve into Metang and then Metagross, respectively. This family is valued in the studies of math and science, as they can run difficult calculations and even employ multistep algorithms to further streamline their deductions. These Pokémon are also notable for developing circulatory systems much like those of organic Pokémon, except they use magnetism to transport metal ions rather than blood to transport nutrients. ","These inorganic Pokémon are lauded for their incredible intellect. While Beldum are of average intelligence for Psychic-types, their capacity for analyzation doubles and then quadruples as they evolve into Metang and then Metagross, respectively. This family is valued in the studies of math and science, as they can run difficult calculations and even employ multistep algorithms to further streamline their deductions. These Pokémon are also notable for developing circulatory systems much like those of organic Pokémon, except they use magnetism to transport metal ions rather than blood to transport nutrients. ","These inorganic Pokémon are lauded for their incredible intellect. While Beldum are of average intelligence for Psychic-types, their capacity for analyzation doubles and then quadruples as they evolve into Metang and then Metagross, respectively. This family is valued in the studies of math and science, as they can run difficult calculations and even employ multistep algorithms to further streamline their deductions. These Pokémon are also notable for developing circulatory systems much like those of organic Pokémon, except they use magnetism to transport metal ions rather than blood to transport nutrients. ","","","","","","","","","","","Torterra are terrestrial chelonians, making them close relatives of Torkoal. They are famous for having earthy shells capable of supporting abundant plant life. These shells are kept moist and fertile as Torterra drink water and digest plant matter. Torterra can support miniature ecosystems on their backs, with small, weak Pokémon finding shelter on them. Avian Pokémon like Starly are even known to nest on their backs. Torterra seem to support whatever flora naturally grows near them; oddly, though, their shells seem unusually receptive to tree and shrub growth and resistant to weeds. Scientists hypothesize that these Pokémon may produce a mild herbicide to foster this.","Torterra are terrestrial chelonians, making them close relatives of Torkoal. They are famous for having earthy shells capable of supporting abundant plant life. These shells are kept moist and fertile as Torterra drink water and digest plant matter. Torterra can support miniature ecosystems on their backs, with small, weak Pokémon finding shelter on them. Avian Pokémon like Starly are even known to nest on their backs. Torterra seem to support whatever flora naturally grows near them; oddly, though, their shells seem unusually receptive to tree and shrub growth and resistant to weeds. Scientists hypothesize that these Pokémon may produce a mild herbicide to foster this.","Torterra are terrestrial chelonians, making them close relatives of Torkoal. They are famous for having earthy shells capable of supporting abundant plant life. These shells are kept moist and fertile as Torterra drink water and digest plant matter. Torterra can support miniature ecosystems on their backs, with small, weak Pokémon finding shelter on them. Avian Pokémon like Starly are even known to nest on their backs. Torterra seem to support whatever flora naturally grows near them; oddly, though, their shells seem unusually receptive to tree and shrub growth and resistant to weeds. Scientists hypothesize that these Pokémon may produce a mild herbicide to foster this.","Infernape are a part of the primate order. They are very closely related to the simian trio—Simisage, Simisear, and Simipour. Though they both share the Fire-typing, Simisear and Infernape appear to have evolved this elemental affinity separately. The Chimchar line is well-known for its agility, playfulness, and intelligence. Infernape is a popular character in both traditional and modern stories; one of the most famous pieces of ancient Sinnoh folklore centers around a great Infernape who uses his cunning and combat skills to overcome a number of difficult obstacles along his journey.","Infernape are a part of the primate order. They are very closely related to the simian trio—Simisage, Simisear, and Simipour. Though they both share the Fire-typing, Simisear and Infernape appear to have evolved this elemental affinity separately. The Chimchar line is well-known for its agility, playfulness, and intelligence. Infernape is a popular character in both traditional and modern stories; one of the most famous pieces of ancient Sinnoh folklore centers around a great Infernape who uses his cunning and combat skills to overcome a number of difficult obstacles along his journey.","Infernape are a part of the primate order. They are very closely related to the simian trio—Simisage, Simisear, and Simipour. Though they both share the Fire-typing, Simisear and Infernape appear to have evolved this elemental affinity separately. The Chimchar line is well-known for its agility, playfulness, and intelligence. Infernape is a popular character in both traditional and modern stories; one of the most famous pieces of ancient Sinnoh folklore centers around a great Infernape who uses his cunning and combat skills to overcome a number of difficult obstacles along his journey.","Empoleon are notable for being the only avians adapted to maneuvering primarily underwater (their close relative Pelipper can dive in shallow depths, but pale in comparison to Empoleon’s aquatic prowess; their closest relative Eiscue cannot submerge at all when their heads are encased in ice). They are heavily adapted to life in polar seas, with insulating down and hard flippers that can break apart ice floes. As a tradeoff, though, Empoleon has also lost its capability of flight, and they are one of the few avians that lack the Flying-type. The horns on their heads are sometimes used as symbols of power; a notable travel gear company uses the design as their logo, for instance.","","","Staraptor is a traditional bird of prey, representing the virtue of strength. Indeed, it and Braviary are the two most powerful of the group; Braviary are also Staraptor’s closest relatives. Staraptor are famous for the flamboyant combs of feathers on their heads, which are symbols of strength in popular culture. Starly are perhaps the most prolific avian known to science. They flock in staggering numbers and can thrive even in human cities. Scientists are currently studying whether Starly populations are still growing, and if their numbers have impacted the well-being of other Pokémon species.","Staraptor is a traditional bird of prey, representing the virtue of strength. Indeed, it and Braviary are the two most powerful of the group; Braviary are also Staraptor’s closest relatives. Staraptor are famous for the flamboyant combs of feathers on their heads, which are symbols of strength in popular culture. Starly are perhaps the most prolific avian known to science. They flock in staggering numbers and can thrive even in human cities. Scientists are currently studying whether Starly populations are still growing, and if their numbers have impacted the well-being of other Pokémon species.","Staraptor is a traditional bird of prey, representing the virtue of strength. Indeed, it and Braviary are the two most powerful of the group; Braviary are also Staraptor’s closest relatives. Staraptor are famous for the flamboyant combs of feathers on their heads, which are symbols of strength in popular culture. Starly are perhaps the most prolific avian known to science. They flock in staggering numbers and can thrive even in human cities. Scientists are currently studying whether Starly populations are still growing, and if their numbers have impacted the well-being of other Pokémon species.","Bibarel are rodents, sharing their characteristic growing incisors with Pokémon like Raticate and Cinccino. They are famed for their industrial natures and dam-building abilities. Bibarel are a keystone species in the regions that they inhabit, altering the flow of rivers with their dams. Both people and Pokémon alike rely on the environments create. Modern dams and levees are actually built with significant influence from Bibarel dams, sometimes even with the aid of the Pokémon themselves. In the past, Bidoof used to be a prime target for poachers for their fur. Such hunting had a huge ecological impact on the environment, which eventually led to its outlawing.","Bibarel are rodents, sharing their characteristic growing incisors with Pokémon like Raticate and Cinccino. They are famed for their industrial natures and dam-building abilities. Bibarel are a keystone species in the regions that they inhabit, altering the flow of rivers with their dams. Both people and Pokémon alike rely on the environments create. Modern dams and levees are actually built with significant influence from Bibarel dams, sometimes even with the aid of the Pokémon themselves. In the past, Bidoof used to be a prime target for poachers for their fur. Such hunting had a huge ecological impact on the environment, which eventually led to its outlawing.","Kricketune are insects that are most closely related to Leavanny, with whom they share their knife-like arms. They are most well-known for their musical capabilities; Kricketot can clang their antennae together to produce a xylophone-like sound, while Kricketune can sing beautifully and resonate their voices within their own bodies. These Pokémon are a favorite of composers, who are enamored with their improvisational skills, as well as conductors, who can teach them to lead human symphonies in addition to Kricketot ones. Kricketune themselves sometimes even appear in orchestras, simultaneously the roles of both musician and instrument.","Kricketune are insects that are most closely related to Leavanny, with whom they share their knife-like arms. They are most well-known for their musical capabilities; Kricketot can clang their antennae together to produce a xylophone-like sound, while Kricketune can sing beautifully and resonate their voices within their own bodies. These Pokémon are a favorite of composers, who are enamored with their improvisational skills, as well as conductors, who can teach them to lead human symphonies in addition to Kricketot ones. Kricketune themselves sometimes even appear in orchestras, simultaneously the roles of both musician and instrument.","Luxray are very closely related to Pyroar; both of them are “big cats” with large manes whose lives revolve around family-based prides. They each also serve as apex predators in their respective domains. Other than typing, they primarily differ in habitats, with Luxray living in temperate grasslands and Pyroar dwelling in dry ones. They also differ in how they delegate roles amongst sexes; Luxray are not distinguished by gender, sharing their jobs interchangeably. Scientists are currently studying how Luxray and Pyroar diverged; it is thought that an intermediate stage capable of hunting like Luxio emerged so Luxray could care for offspring (a role female Pyroar occupy).","Luxray are very closely related to Pyroar; both of them are “big cats” with large manes whose lives revolve around family-based prides. They each also serve as apex predators in their respective domains. Other than typing, they primarily differ in habitats, with Luxray living in temperate grasslands and Pyroar dwelling in dry ones. They also differ in how they delegate roles amongst sexes; Luxray are not distinguished by gender, sharing their jobs interchangeably. Scientists are currently studying how Luxray and Pyroar diverged; it is thought that an intermediate stage capable of hunting like Luxio emerged so Luxray could care for offspring (a role female Pyroar occupy).","Luxray are very closely related to Pyroar; both of them are “big cats” with large manes whose lives revolve around family-based prides. They each also serve as apex predators in their respective domains. Other than typing, they primarily differ in habitats, with Luxray living in temperate grasslands and Pyroar dwelling in dry ones. They also differ in how they delegate roles amongst sexes; Luxray are not distinguished by gender, sharing their jobs interchangeably. Scientists are currently studying how Luxray and Pyroar diverged; it is thought that an intermediate stage capable of hunting like Luxio emerged so Luxray could care for offspring (a role female Pyroar occupy).","The Budew family is a rosid; the clade even derives its name from Roselia and Roserade. Its closest relative is Cherrim. These Pokémon are associated with grace and beauty, but also pain and poison. They are a favorite of poets and writers as symbols of this duality. Budew pollen is one of the most common allergens in both people and Pokémon, triggering seasonal attacks every spring. Because Budew are so numerous, their pollen can cause significant health issues when they open. However, because they are an important food source for larger Pokémon, efforts to control Budew populations have faced significant backlash.","The Budew family is a rosid; the clade even derives its name from Roselia and Roserade. Its closest relative is Cherrim. These Pokémon are associated with grace and beauty, but also pain and poison. They are a favorite of poets and writers as symbols of this duality. Budew pollen is one of the most common allergens in both people and Pokémon, triggering seasonal attacks every spring. Because Budew are so numerous, their pollen can cause significant health issues when they open. However, because they are an important food source for larger Pokémon, efforts to control Budew populations have faced significant backlash.","Rampardos are part of a saurian group known as the ornithischians, distinguished by the bony horns and plates that protect their heads. The other member of this order is Bastiodon; while they used their head plates for defense, though, Rampardos used their skulls for offense. Rampardos are often portrayed in popular media as dim-witted, a stereotype that actually seems to have been proven true. These Pokémon have very small brains as a trade-off for their thick skulls. Because fossil records show that their ancestors actually had larger brains, scientists believe Rampardos actually evolved smaller brains due to lack of evolutionary pressure for intelligence.","Rampardos are part of a saurian group known as the ornithischians, distinguished by the bony horns and plates that protect their heads. The other member of this order is Bastiodon; while they used their head plates for defense, though, Rampardos used their skulls for offense. Rampardos are often portrayed in popular media as dim-witted, a stereotype that actually seems to have been proven true. These Pokémon have very small brains as a trade-off for their thick skulls. Because fossil records show that their ancestors actually had larger brains, scientists believe Rampardos actually evolved smaller brains due to lack of evolutionary pressure for intelligence.","Bastiodon are ornithischians alongside Rampardos. They are one of the first Pokémon people think of when they picture a herbivorous saurian—large, docile, and slow-moving. They epitomize the idea that the best offense is a good defense; their instinctual response to a threat is to line up and face it headfirst. Scientists believe that Bastiodon encouraged predators to develop one of two tactics: intelligence or flight. Smarter predators could find ways to disperse their walls to access their vulnerable offspring, while aerial ones could easily pass over their fortresses. Tyrantrum, for example, was thought to have been smart enough to outwit these Pokémon.","Bastiodon are ornithischians alongside Rampardos. They are one of the first Pokémon people think of when they picture a herbivorous saurian—large, docile, and slow-moving. They epitomize the idea that the best offense is a good defense; their instinctual response to a threat is to line up and face it headfirst. Scientists believe that Bastiodon encouraged predators to develop one of two tactics: intelligence or flight. Smarter predators could find ways to disperse their walls to access their vulnerable offspring, while aerial ones could easily pass over their fortresses. Tyrantrum, for example, was thought to have been smart enough to outwit these Pokémon.","The Burmy family is a close relative of Forretress; both Pokémon create makeshift coverings for themselves out of surrounding materials in order to protect their fragile bodies. While Pineco restrict themselves to tree bark and rarely shed their cloaks, though, Burmy use a wide variety of materials and routinely lose their coverings. This family is also notable for its odd sexual dimorphism; females are neotenous like Forretress, never sprouting wings to fly like males. Since Mothim are the ones that fly out in search of sessile Wormadam, it is thought that Wormadam evolved their permanent cloaks as camouflage so they didn’t have to expend energy moving.","The Burmy family is a close relative of Forretress; both Pokémon create makeshift coverings for themselves out of surrounding materials in order to protect their fragile bodies. While Pineco restrict themselves to tree bark and rarely shed their cloaks, though, Burmy use a wide variety of materials and routinely lose their coverings. This family is also notable for its odd sexual dimorphism; females are neotenous like Forretress, never sprouting wings to fly like males. Since Mothim are the ones that fly out in search of sessile Wormadam, it is thought that Wormadam evolved their permanent cloaks as camouflage so they didn’t have to expend energy moving.","The Burmy family is a close relative of Forretress; both Pokémon create makeshift coverings for themselves out of surrounding materials in order to protect their fragile bodies. While Pineco restrict themselves to tree bark and rarely shed their cloaks, though, Burmy use a wide variety of materials and routinely lose their coverings. This family is also notable for its odd sexual dimorphism; females are neotenous like Forretress, never sprouting wings to fly like males. Since Mothim are the ones that fly out in search of sessile Wormadam, it is thought that Wormadam evolved their permanent cloaks as camouflage so they didn’t have to expend energy moving.","Vespiquen are close relatives of Beedrill. Instead of possessing venom and stingers to defend themselves, though, Vespiquen rely on a unique, eusocial colony structure that utilizes Combee to attack and protect. Since male Combee cannot evolve, their entire lives are dedicated to protecting their queens; female Combee are usually suppressed by the queen’s pheromones, but errant evolutions rarely occur. The hexagonal shape of a Combee unit is of great interest to architects, as it provides great stability and impermeability to Combee hives. Combee also produce delicious Honey; modern Honey is usually produced in artificial hives with the help of Combee keepers.","Vespiquen are close relatives of Beedrill. Instead of possessing venom and stingers to defend themselves, though, Vespiquen rely on a unique, eusocial colony structure that utilizes Combee to attack and protect. Since male Combee cannot evolve, their entire lives are dedicated to protecting their queens; female Combee are usually suppressed by the queen’s pheromones, but errant evolutions rarely occur. The hexagonal shape of a Combee unit is of great interest to architects, as it provides great stability and impermeability to Combee hives. Combee also produce delicious Honey; modern Honey is usually produced in artificial hives with the help of Combee keepers.","Pachirisu are one of a number of closely-related rodents with electric organs located within their cheek pouches. They are most closely related to Emolga, with whom they share many of their physiological characteristics. While Emolga have become clumsy on the ground in favor of aerial mobility, though, Pachirisu remain capable of agilely scurrying from one place to the next. They are also notable for how they have weaponized their own shed hair, electrifying it and fashioning it into balls to protect their food caches. This actually seems to be a behavior they learn from watching other Pachirisu, as individuals raised alone in captivity never replicate this practice.","These aquatic mustelids can be distinguished by their overhanging canines, a trait that they share with the closely-related Weavile. Though they share some characteristics with Samurott, these similarities arose separately as they adapted to similar environments (Samurott, who are pinnipeds like Walrein, adapted to coastal beaches while Floatzel evolved to thrive in freshwater rivers). Their flotation sacs are also notable adaptations, functioning like external swim bladders of sorts. The oil-filled tails of mammalian Azumarill serve a similar purpose in another interesting example of this trait.","These aquatic mustelids can be distinguished by their overhanging canines, a trait that they share with the closely-related Weavile. Though they share some characteristics with Samurott, these similarities arose separately as they adapted to similar environments (Samurott, who are pinnipeds like Walrein, adapted to coastal beaches while Floatzel evolved to thrive in freshwater rivers). Their flotation sacs are also notable adaptations, functioning like external swim bladders of sorts. The oil-filled tails of mammalian Azumarill serve a similar purpose in another interesting example of this trait.","As rosids, Cherrim’s closest extant relative is Roserade. Unlike their cousins, this family can bear fruit in the form of the withered secondary heads of Cherubi. In the past, harvesting this fruit was  a tedious and ethically controversial practice, as Cherubi need them for nutrients and usually only ever produced a single one. Modern feeding and nutritional practices, however, allow Cherubi to thrive without their secondary heads and even produce new ones. Cherrim have optimized sunlight exposure to an extreme extent; while many Grass-types become more active in the sun, Cherrim actually enter a state similar to hibernation as soon as they enter the shade.","As rosids, Cherrim’s closest extant relative is Roserade. Unlike their cousins, this family can bear fruit in the form of the withered secondary heads of Cherubi. In the past, harvesting this fruit was  a tedious and ethically controversial practice, as Cherubi need them for nutrients and usually only ever produced a single one. Modern feeding and nutritional practices, however, allow Cherubi to thrive without their secondary heads and even produce new ones. Cherrim have optimized sunlight exposure to an extreme extent; while many Grass-types become more active in the sun, Cherrim actually enter a state similar to hibernation as soon as they enter the shade.","Gastrodon, as their name suggests, are gastropods, making them relatives of Goodra. They are notable for their distinct East and West Sea forms, which arose after Mt. Coronet in Sinnoh divided the population in two. Though they have traditionally been thought to have arose through allopatric speciation, with each side adapting to its environment, it has been recently proposed that the peak divided the population very unequally; the side with only a few individuals would have any unique traits already present quickly spread through the founder effect. This better explains the changes in traits like their back growths, which seem to have little effect on their survival.","Gastrodon, as their name suggests, are gastropods, making them relatives of Goodra. They are notable for their distinct East and West Sea forms, which arose after Mt. Coronet in Sinnoh divided the population in two. Though they have traditionally been thought to have arose through allopatric speciation, with each side adapting to its environment, it has been recently proposed that the peak divided the population very unequally; the side with only a few individuals would have any unique traits already present quickly spread through the founder effect. This better explains the changes in traits like their back growths, which seem to have little effect on their survival.","Scientists believe that either Ambipom or Primeape was the first primate to diverge, being somewhat related to Passimian. Possessing large brains and the ability to use tools (such as sharpened sticks for piercing the rinds of fruit), Aipom are popular in media as playful, cunning (but not malicious) tricksters. Both Aipom and Ambipom have evolved tails that function much like hands, complete with finger-like appendages. Their hands have atrophied in vestigial remnants over time; they likely evolved this way because of how they spend their lives swinging in trees by their tails. Similarly, their feet are also not well-suited for walking, though not as weak as their hands.","Little is known about these mysterious Pokémon; tracking wild Drifblim seems to be a fruitless task, as GPS trackers and other devices inexplicably cease signaling when the Pokémon disappear from view. Believers of the supernatural purport that Drifblim make periodic trips to the underworld to feed, explaining why they suddenly vanish and never seem to eat. From a more scientific viewpoint, these odd creatures seem to function much like Tentacool do in the ocean; both have soft bodies composed primarily of the surrounding medium, and both drift about aimlessly in currents with little control of their movement.","Little is known about these mysterious Pokémon; tracking wild Drifblim seems to be a fruitless task, as GPS trackers and other devices inexplicably cease signaling when the Pokémon disappear from view. Believers of the supernatural purport that Drifblim make periodic trips to the underworld to feed, explaining why they suddenly vanish and never seem to eat. From a more scientific viewpoint, these odd creatures seem to function much like Tentacool do in the ocean; both have soft bodies composed primarily of the surrounding medium, and both drift about aimlessly in currents with little control of their movement.","Lopunny is a very close relative of Diggersby; both Pokémon have highly developed ears that can be somewhat maneuvered to complete various tasks. Though Diggersby are more advanced in this regard, Lopunny are far more agile creatures. Lopunny have some of the strongest legs for Pokémon of similar size, using them to both leap about as well as kick down foes who stand in their way. Lopunny fur is a common material in the fashion industry, with many boutiques championing it as luxuriously elegant and sophisticated. Since these Pokémon only shed twice a year, however, it is also far pricier than the similar Mareep wool.","Lopunny is a very close relative of Diggersby; both Pokémon have highly developed ears that can be somewhat maneuvered to complete various tasks. Though Diggersby are more advanced in this regard, Lopunny are far more agile creatures. Lopunny have some of the strongest legs for Pokémon of similar size, using them to both leap about as well as kick down foes who stand in their way. Lopunny fur is a common material in the fashion industry, with many boutiques championing it as luxuriously elegant and sophisticated. Since these Pokémon only shed twice a year, however, it is also far pricier than the similar Mareep wool.","Mismagius are ethereal Pokémon with mostly gaseous bodies. They, however, are tangible (unlike their fellow Ghost-type, Gengar). While most other Ghost-types either have membranes or material bodies, Mismagius lack any sort of protective covering; their bodies billow like smoke as they travel, held together by some currently unknown force. Their ability to seemingly materialize and disappear at will makes them difficult to study in the wild. These Pokémon are also related to Mimikyu, Drifblim, and Banette, the last of which with whom they share their typing, body composition, and diet; Banette are characterized by their distinct, cloth bodies, however.","Honchkrow are passerines related to Fearow and Swellow; most significantly, they are also in the same genus as Corviknight. They are largely nocturnal, but can be found active during the day in dark places. These Pokémon are well known for their unique social structure, in which flocks of Murkrow “henchmen” serve a single Honchkrow boss, defending the territory as well as bringing back food and shiny loot. Why exactly they are so fascinated with reflective objects is unknown, but scientists theorize that Honchkrow gauge the sizes of their rivals’ hoards in order to judge their might. Thus, they may attempt to create large collections of shiny objects in order to assert their dominance against rival Honchkrow with smaller piles.","These felines are part of the “small cats” group, alongside Persian and Delcatty. While they are adored by some and kept as pets like their cousins, they are by far the most polarizing member of the group when it come to public perception. Unlike scrappy Meowth or adorable Skitty, people that dislike Glameow often fail to find any positive qualities that would justify their adoration (even devious Purrloin are arguably less overtly troublesome). Because stray Purugly can be huge nuisances when they enter homes or the nests of wild Pokémon, some cities have banned these Pokémon as pets altogether.","These felines are part of the “small cats” group, alongside Persian and Delcatty. While they are adored by some and kept as pets like their cousins, they are by far the most polarizing member of the group when it come to public perception. Unlike scrappy Meowth or adorable Skitty, people that dislike Glameow often fail to find any positive qualities that would justify their adoration (even devious Purrloin are arguably less overtly troublesome). Because stray Purugly can be huge nuisances when they enter homes or the nests of wild Pokémon, some cities have banned these Pokémon as pets altogether.","Chingling and Chimecho are known their musical capabilities; Chingling can produce a ringing jingle while Chimecho can make a beautiful, sparkling chime. Their ability to make noises like brass percussion instruments has led many to speculate that they may be related to Bronzong. These Pokémon have organic, fleshy appendages that Bronzong lack, however, and their resonating structures similarly seem natural in origin. Because Chimecho often appear in cemeteries, some believe that they may have some affiliation with the spirit world. It is said that their ethereal cries help soothe anguished souls and guide them to the land of the dead.","Although Skuntank are related to mustelids like Weavile and Floatzel, they actually are the sole members of their own family entirely. These Pokémon are famous for their putrid scent glands, which they use to deter predators. The compound they produce is rich in odorous sulfur and can last for a long time before dissipating. These Pokémon also are oddly resistant to the attacks of Combee and Vespiquen thanks to their thick fur and skin; Skuntank have been known to ignite their sprays to break apart walls of Combee and access valuable Honey. This behavior is believed to be learned, not instinctual, as orphaned Stunky rarely practice this technique.","Although Skuntank are related to mustelids like Weavile and Floatzel, they actually are the sole members of their own family entirely. These Pokémon are famous for their putrid scent glands, which they use to deter predators. The compound they produce is rich in odorous sulfur and can last for a long time before dissipating. These Pokémon also are oddly resistant to the attacks of Combee and Vespiquen thanks to their thick fur and skin; Skuntank have been known to ignite their sprays to break apart walls of Combee and access valuable Honey. This behavior is believed to be learned, not instinctual, as orphaned Stunky rarely practice this technique.","Little is known about these mysterious Pokémon; while we know that they have been around for thousands of years, modern scientists have only discovered them less than a century ago (the Bronzor-like implements were discovered initially, followed by the first Bronzong and then Bronzor themselves). Since Bronzong resonate sound much like Chimecho, some hypothesize that the two may be related in some way. Much of what we know about these Pokémon actually comes from archaeologists and anthropologists, who have uncovered ancient tools and artwork that hint at their connection to weather and agriculture.","Little is known about these mysterious Pokémon; while we know that they have been around for thousands of years, modern scientists have only discovered them less than a century ago (the Bronzor-like implements were discovered initially, followed by the first Bronzong and then Bronzor themselves). Since Bronzong resonate sound much like Chimecho, some hypothesize that the two may be related in some way. Much of what we know about these Pokémon actually comes from archaeologists and anthropologists, who have uncovered ancient tools and artwork that hint at their connection to weather and agriculture.","Though Bonsly and Sudowoodo resemble plants, their bodies are entirely mineral-based. The line is notable for providing strong evidence supporting a common origin for inorganic and organic Pokémon; unlike Pokémon like Electrode or Klinklang, scientists agree that Sudowoodo’s camouflage was adapted over time through natural selection and speciation. As one of the only inorganic Pokémon found outside of an environment composed primarily of what they themselves are made of (in other words, as Rock-types found outside of rocky areas), this adaptation showed that they could evolve over time instead of spontaneously forming from their basic elements.","Many people find Mr. Mime to be deeply unsettling because of how humanoid, but not quite human, they look. Researchers agree that they are likely the closest link between people and Pokémon, citing support such as: their similar physiology, their great intellect, their affinities for towns and cities, their distinctly human-like skin, and their near-identical brain structures. The physical differences between people and Mr. Mime can largely be attributed to two primary differences. Firstly, these Pokémon store fat entirely in their torsos, giving them very slender limbs. Secondly, their joints are all synovial, allowing them to bend at odd, sometimes disturbing angles.","The Happiny family is the one of two known extant lines of an order of mammals known as monotremes, alongside Golduck. This group is unique in that, unlike all other mammals, its members lay eggs instead of giving birth to live young under normal environmental conditions (all Pokémon that can reproduce in captivity will do so via eggs, a basal trait activated when normal mating conditions are not fulfilled). These Pokémon will lay sterile eggs even when not mating; these eggs are famously delicious and high in nutrients. The behavior of wild individuals has not been well-studied, as these Pokémon are rarely sighted and are quick to flee.","While many passerines like Chatot are skilled when it comes to vocalization (Altaria readily comes to mind), these Pokémon are by far the most advanced, both in complexity and variety. Their chattering has evolved to be their primary form of hunting, disguise, and defense. Because they can imitate any instrument, these Pokémon are popular in bands; they are especially common in schools, where budget constraints make such a flexible Pokémon very valuable in music programs. Chatot are thought to be one of the most intelligent avians; while perhaps not comparable to Noctowl or Xatu, they are very bright when it comes to memorization and problem-solving.","These mysterious Pokémon are feared by many; Sinnoh mythology claims that each Spiritomb is composed of 108 malevolent souls confined to an earthly keystone and prevented from passage to the spirit world because of their wrongdoings. Naturally, scientists are skeptical of this theory, as it doesn’t explain why Spiritomb and keystones continue to appear in the wild even as known individuals are caught. Believers in the paranormal, however, point to a peculiar inter-Pokémon interaction to support their beliefs; the Pokémon Dusknoir, said to ferry spirits to the underworld, seem to instinctively attack Spiritomb on sight, even if they have never seen one before.","Garchomp are thought to share a common ancestor with the modern Sharpedo; though terrestrial and limbed, they do in fact have similarly-arranged scales, modified fins, and most importantly, cartilaginous skeletons. Members of the Gible line also shed their teeth periodically, much like Sharpedo. Fossils of what most scientists agree are likely the remnants of “proto-Gible” were also found in areas that would have bordered tropical seas in the past, further supporting this hypothesis. It is unknown why these Pokémon today dwell in hot, dry areas; though they may have left the water to hunt terrestrial prey, exactly why they abandoned the tropics remains a mystery.","Garchomp are thought to share a common ancestor with the modern Sharpedo; though terrestrial and limbed, they do in fact have similarly-arranged scales, modified fins, and most importantly, cartilaginous skeletons. Members of the Gible line also shed their teeth periodically, much like Sharpedo. Fossils of what most scientists agree are likely the remnants of “proto-Gible” were also found in areas that would have bordered tropical seas in the past, further supporting this hypothesis. It is unknown why these Pokémon today dwell in hot, dry areas; though they may have left the water to hunt terrestrial prey, exactly why they abandoned the tropics remains a mystery.","Garchomp are thought to share a common ancestor with the modern Sharpedo; though terrestrial and limbed, they do in fact have similarly-arranged scales, modified fins, and most importantly, cartilaginous skeletons. Members of the Gible line also shed their teeth periodically, much like Sharpedo. Fossils of what most scientists agree are likely the remnants of “proto-Gible” were also found in areas that would have bordered tropical seas in the past, further supporting this hypothesis. It is unknown why these Pokémon today dwell in hot, dry areas; though they may have left the water to hunt terrestrial prey, exactly why they abandoned the tropics remains a mystery.","It may be physically difficult to discern exactly what Snorlax are because of the large amounts of fat concealing most of their features. However, from skeletal and physiological examinations, it is clear that these Pokémon are ursines, related to the likes of Ursaring and Beartic. It is notable that the members of this family hibernate, sleeping throughout the winter while living off of energy reserves gathered prior to their dormancy. Many scientists believe that the lengthy sleeping and eating patterns of Snorlax is the result of the trigger for their hibernation somehow being left perpetually in the “on” position.","Evolutionarily speaking, Lucario seem to be highly-diverged canids, most closely related to Houndoom. While distinctly bipedal, they do share similar snouts, teeth (though they have curved canines), and ears with other canids. These Pokémon are famous for their ability to harness and detect “aura;” the only other species known to utilize it with any regularity is Medicham. Like the other nebulous forms of energy that Pokémon use, little is known about aura and how it functions. Scientists do know that it functions much like a wave of light or sound, strong “pulses” of it can travel far distances, but the resting aura of most beings only envelops their own bodies. ","Evolutionarily speaking, Lucario seem to be highly-diverged canids, most closely related to Houndoom. While distinctly bipedal, they do share similar snouts, teeth (though they have curved canines), and ears with other canids. These Pokémon are famous for their ability to harness and detect “aura;” the only other species known to utilize it with any regularity is Medicham. Like the other nebulous forms of energy that Pokémon use, little is known about aura and how it functions. Scientists do know that it functions much like a wave of light or sound, strong “pulses” of it can travel far distances, but the resting aura of most beings only envelops their own bodies. ","Though scientists once believed that these Pokémon were related to Grumpig and Emboar, modern research shows that they are actually and surprisingly closest to Wailord (though they are still even-toed ungulates like the aforementioned species). Fossil evidence suggests that the ancestors of Hippowdon were actually semiaquatic. This makes them similar to Krookodile (and to a lesser extent Garchomp) in that they are both desert dwellers that descended from water-based ancestors. Exactly why these Pokémon evolved to not only become terrestrial, but also adapted to life in arid, sandy environments, is still unknown.","Though scientists once believed that these Pokémon were related to Grumpig and Emboar, modern research shows that they are actually and surprisingly closest to Wailord (though they are still even-toed ungulates like the aforementioned species). Fossil evidence suggests that the ancestors of Hippowdon were actually semiaquatic. This makes them similar to Krookodile (and to a lesser extent Garchomp) in that they are both desert dwellers that descended from water-based ancestors. Exactly why these Pokémon evolved to not only become terrestrial, but also adapted to life in arid, sandy environments, is still unknown.","Drapion are arachnids. They are very closely related to Gliscor, and more distantly to Sizzlipede; though they cannot fly like Gliscor, they share very similar venom (close enough to be treated by the same antivenom, in fact). These Pokémon are notable for being able to survive both in arid deserts and moist wetlands. They are able to regulate their water levels very precisely, allowing them to conserve moisture in dry areas or expel it in wet ones. In fact, scientists speculate that Drapion may have very recently descended from an aquatic ancestor, though they aren’t sure whether Gliscor shares this ancestor as well.","Drapion are arachnids. They are very closely related to Gliscor, and more distantly to Sizzlipede; though they cannot fly like Gliscor, they share very similar venom (close enough to be treated by the same antivenom, in fact). These Pokémon are notable for being able to survive both in arid deserts and moist wetlands. They are able to regulate their water levels very precisely, allowing them to conserve moisture in dry areas or expel it in wet ones. In fact, scientists speculate that Drapion may have very recently descended from an aquatic ancestor, though they aren’t sure whether Gliscor shares this ancestor as well.","Toxicroak are anurans, with their closest relatives being the Poliwag family and Greninja. They are notable for their virulent poison; another one of their relatives, Seismitoad, also can secrete a paralyzing poison, but the two seem to have developed this separately. Toxicroak also churn their poison in their sacs to increase its potency by mixing volatile chemicals; scientists note that the Pokémon Weezing practice this as well, though with gases rather than fluids. It is thought that these Pokémon derive most—though not all—of their toxicity from their diets; trained individuals raised on nontoxic diets are significantly less poisonous than their wild brethren.","Toxicroak are anurans, with their closest relatives being the Poliwag family and Greninja. They are notable for their virulent poison; another one of their relatives, Seismitoad, also can secrete a paralyzing poison, but the two seem to have developed this separately. Toxicroak also churn their poison in their sacs to increase its potency by mixing volatile chemicals; scientists note that the Pokémon Weezing practice this as well, though with gases rather than fluids. It is thought that these Pokémon derive most—though not all—of their toxicity from their diets; trained individuals raised on nontoxic diets are significantly less poisonous than their wild brethren.","Carnivine share a lot in common with their fellow carnivorous Grass-type, Victreebel. Though they may utilize different mechanisms to trap their prey, both adapted to nutrient-poor environments by developing the ability to hunt. They also utilize the same aromatic compound in their drool (Carnivine) or acid (Victreebel) to attract victims towards them. Carnivine differ from their close relative a bit in that they also can tolerate temperate climates as well, whereas Victreebel are a primarily tropical species. Carnivine are also solitary Pokémon, while Victreebel dwell in huge colonies.","Lumineon are perciformes with an interesting choice of habitat; Finneon spend their days in sunlit coral reefs before returning to the depths of the ocean at night, while Lumineon wander along the sea floor on their fins. Their main competition for food is Lanturn, who are also bioluminescent deep-sea dwellers. Without the electrogenetic capabilities that Lanturn have, however, Lumineon seem to be at an immediate disadvantage. Scientists believe that these Pokémon evolved to trawl the very bottom of the sea to avoid direct conflict with Lanturn, as they have settled for whatever scraps have floated down from the ocean’s surface.","Lumineon are perciformes with an interesting choice of habitat; Finneon spend their days in sunlit coral reefs before returning to the depths of the ocean at night, while Lumineon wander along the sea floor on their fins. Their main competition for food is Lanturn, who are also bioluminescent deep-sea dwellers. Without the electrogenetic capabilities that Lanturn have, however, Lumineon seem to be at an immediate disadvantage. Scientists believe that these Pokémon evolved to trawl the very bottom of the sea to avoid direct conflict with Lanturn, as they have settled for whatever scraps have floated down from the ocean’s surface.","Surprisingly, Mantine are the closest living relatives of Sharpedo—both have cartilaginous skeletons rather than bony ones. These gentle giants are famous for their mutualistic relationship with the much smaller Remoraid. In fact, the two have coevolved to depend upon one another for survival. Mantyke are large baby Pokémon that are easy targets for predators, so they will swim alongside schools of Remoraid for protection; conversely, Remoraid are eager to latch onto Mantyke once they grow large enough for easy food and travel until they evolve. In fact, the successful attachment of a Remoraid to a Mantyke triggers the latter’s evolution into Mantine.","These elusive Pokémon are the only gymnosperms we know of so far. While Snover can be rarely spotted in the winter when they migrate to lower altitudes, Abomasnow are practically never seen in the wild; the vast majority of sighting reports involve blurry, indistinct silhouettes shrouded in furious blizzards. These Pokémon are thought to share a connection with snow flowers, one of the few plants that can tolerate constant snow. However, some scientists suggest that this relation may only be coincidental; it is possible that the snow flower blooming season may simply coincide with Abomasnow mating season, for instance.","These elusive Pokémon are the only gymnosperms we know of so far. While Snover can be rarely spotted in the winter when they migrate to lower altitudes, Abomasnow are practically never seen in the wild; the vast majority of sighting reports involve blurry, indistinct silhouettes shrouded in furious blizzards. These Pokémon are thought to share a connection with snow flowers, one of the few plants that can tolerate constant snow. However, some scientists suggest that this relation may only be coincidental; it is possible that the snow flower blooming season may simply coincide with Abomasnow mating season, for instance.","Weavile are members of the mammalian group known as the mustelids, with their closest relatives being Floatzel. They are adapted to snowy environments, particularly boreal forests. However, they are more tolerant of heat than most Ice-types. One of their most curious adaptations are the feather-like appendages that sprout on their heads and tails. They were once proposed to determine the ranking of members in a pack, but research shows that such rankings don’t exist in their packs. The leading theory now points to them being an indicator of sexual fitness; it should be noted that female Sneasel have shorter “feathers” than male ones.","Magnezone are inorganic Pokémon that have metal-based bodies rather than carbon-based ones. This puts them in the same group as Pokémon like Klingklang and Bronzong. Since they are inorganic, exactly where they fall in the classification system is uncertain. In systems where all Pokémon, both carbon-based and non-carbon-based, are placed in the same kingdom, they are either classified alongside Electrode on the grounds of their shared electrogenesis abilities, or with Metagross based on their shared electromagnetic abilities. Of course, there is also the very plausible possibility that one or more of these Pokémon arose independently of the others.","The Lickitung family was traditionally classified as a mammal due to its general body physiology. Though some scientists speculated that they were perhaps amphibious or reptilian because of their long tongues, few bothered to conduct much research on them; the line has up until recently been woefully neglected by researchers for unknown reasons. Newer studies strongly suggest that they are in fact reptilian, however. Their skulls are clearly diapsid in nature, a distinctly reptilian trait (in addition to their tongues and tails). Their mammalian physiques likely result from their copious adipose tissue, a trait they oddly share with fellow pudgy squamatan Magmortar.","The Rhyhorn family are classic examples of ungulates, particularly of perissodactyls like Hypno, Zebstrika, and Rapidash. Alongside Drowzee, Mareep, and Tepig (as well as potentially Spoink, though because of its unique form of locomotion this is debatable), Rhyhorn are among the minority of ungulates that become bipedal upon evolution; this chance in stance also comes with an increase in intelligence, a trend observed across multiple orders of Pokémon. Their characteristically thick and sturdy armor evolved to protect these sluggish, large herbivores from predators, much like the skin of their relative Donphan.","It is difficult to classify the Tangela line because no one has figured out what lies beneath the masses of vines that cover the Pokémon. From research done on vines that have snapped off of these Pokémon, it appears that they share an evolutionary relationship with seaweed and other forms of algae. However, DNA evidence also has revealed unexpressed genes that are identical to that of flowering plants, with similarities far closer than they share with algae. For this reason, despite carrying traits with both groups, they are classified as asterids alongside other flowering Pokémon like Sunflora; more research needs to be conducted in order to cement this placing.","The Elekid line are classified as primates, specifically as apes because of the lumbering body structure of Electivire. They share this trait with Darmanitan and Rillaboom, their fellow apes and closest relatives. Though primates have a reputation for being unusually intelligent, the Elekid line seems to display average intellect for Pokémon; the more agile primates, like Ambipom, Infernape, the Simi monkeys, and especially Oranguru fit this perception more than Electivire. Despite this, the ratio of their brain mass to body mass is noticeably larger than that of other Pokémon, a trait indicative of all species classified as primates.","The Magby line was an enigma to scientists; Magmar (the most common member of the lien in the wild) had a Psyduck’s bill but a Charmeleon’s tail, leading to some conclusion regarding its classification. Subsequent studies on the Pokémon along with its evolutions brought evidence that they were definitively reptilian, albeit with large deposits of adipose tissue that gave them their stocky builds. They share this trait with Lickilicky, who also confused researchers because of its odd body shape. Because of their curious behavior regarding volcanoes, scientists are looking into studying the behavior of Magby in order to predict volcanic eruptions.","Togekiss are thought to be a relatively primitive species of birds, notably lacking the talons present in the vast majority of other species. Their thick layers of feathers and adipose tissues give them their distinctively plump shape. Togepi have been intensely researched in order to learn more about maternal imprinting, particularly for applications in the upbringings of other children and young Pokémon. Meanwhile, Togetic’s joy dust is being tested for use as an antidepressant. Togekiss are heralded as symbols of world peace and have historically been a common mascot of many nonviolent protest organizations.","The Yanma line is thought to be a very ancient family of Pokémon, even when compared to fellow arthropods. Yanmega are thought to be living fossils that have changed little from millions of years ago. As menacing as they are today, some of the line’s now-extinct relatives are thought to have been even larger than Yanmega. It is thought that a decrease in available atmospheric oxygen prevented these relatives from thriving, allowing the “smaller” Yanmega to proliferate. These Pokémon are notable for their unique, elongated body plan, their blistering speed, and their ability to hover in the air. ","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","The Gliscor line are unique among the arthropods in their method of flight. Rather than possessing wings, they have membranes that allow them to glide (in the case of Gligar) or fly (Gliscor) through the air. As arachnids, they are very closely related to Drapion; both possess pincers and stingers, although their positions are reversed from one another. The two Pokémon have very similar venoms, and can in fact be treated with the same antivenom. In the past, many believed that these Pokémon were hematophagous like the similar-looking Golbat. However, despite their appearances, the Pokémon are unrelated, and Gliscor have not been ever reported to suck blood.","There is some debate as to whether these ancient Pokémon are more closely related to the modern Donphan or Emboar. Though they have been traditionally classified with the former due to their quadrupedal nature and possession of tusks, many scientists today believe that they are much more closely related to the latter, primarily citing their physiology and short snouts. Mamoswine are famously prehistoric, most notably with one individual being successfully thawed from ice after being frozen for thousands of years. While Swinub and Piloswine can be found in a number of snowy areas, Mamoswine only inhabit the most frozen glaciers of the world.","Silph Co. created the first artificial Pokémon, Porygon, in the late 1990s, and issued its upgrade, Porygon2, at the turn of the century. Porygon-Z was an unauthorized update created by an unknown group of hackers. Some people believe that Team Galactic created the patch while perfecting interdimensional travel, while others think that Team Plasma scientist Colress covertly created Porygon-Z at the P2 Laboratory in Unova. Though owning a Porygon-Z is technically illegal, the Pokémon has become so famous (including a starring role in a popular video game as a corrupt research facility AI) that Silph Co. has ceased taking action against its owners.","For scientists that believed Pokémon and people share a common ancestor, the humanoid Ralts line was thought to be one of humanity’s closest relatives. However, recent studies have proposed a new division that instead includes them in the novel Fascinus. Ralts and its evolutions are very popular Pokémon, but are also famously difficult to raise; it is said training a Ralts is more akin to raising a child a Pokémon. This also makes the line one of the most controversial in the debate of Pokémon training ethics; they are clearly able to think and feel emotions like people, yet can be caught like any other Pokémon. On the other hand, they also thrive best alongside a compassionate human, and can easily evade capture if they choose to do so.","The mysterious Pokémon have been closely studied for decades. They are almost sessile, moving very slowly and very rarely. The Rock-type Nosepass seem to actively require a large intake of magnetized iron in order to evolve into the partly Steel-type Probopass. Recent studies suggest that these Pokémon function almost like decomposers for Steel-type Pokémon; hundreds of Nosepass were found congregated around an abandoned mining site, having consumed almost all of the tools and materials in the area. They also have been observed feeding on the carcasses of deceased Steel-types near their homes.","These Pokémon are both feared and admired for their supernatural abilities. Parents often warn their children that Duskull will kidnap them if they misbehave; Dusclops are said to send those that gaze into their eyes into purgatory; Dusknoir are thought to ferry pure souls to the land of the dead. Dusknoir are thought to be relatives of Banette, with whom they share a similar, cloth-like membrane. Although many Ghost-types are associated with death, this family is uniquely associated with human spirits; some believe Dusknoir even receive orders from a higher power to take specific human souls to the spirit world at certain times.","These icy Pokémon can inhabit even the coldest areas of the world. Because they are rarely sighted, many cultures have different pieces of folklore surrounding each of these Pokémon. Alpine communities associate Snorunt with snow and good fortune, for instance, and warn travelers of the mysterious Froslass. Scientists have hypothesized that Snorunt may have originally been a cave-dwelling Rock-type that adapted to the frozen caverns. This is primarily supported by the fact that Glalie are composed mostly of rock, despite being Ice-types. Recent studies also show that Froslass have rocky cores supporting them as well.","Rotom are an odd Pokémon; unique amongst spectral species, they have developed the ability to not only generate their own electricity, but possess electrical devices and control them as well. Their bodies are much like plasma, though not nearly as hot. Many scientists believe that Rotom are almost entirely composed of electrical energy, bound together by the same, mysterious attractive force that holds Pokémon like Gastly intact. For reasons unknown, Rotom seem to crave human attention more than anything else; they will desperately seek people when left alone, attempting escape from enclosures by any means possible.","","","","","","","","","","Phione are an odd Pokémon when it comes to classification; according to myth, all Phione are descendants of the legendary Pokémon Manaphy, which to some (including most Sinnoh residents) means that they themselves are legendaries. In all other aspects, however, Phione are essentially a normal species; they reproduce on their own to produce more Phione, for instance. Scientists believe that the mythical Manaphy is likely a lone mutation that resulted in a phenotypically-different Phione that could nevertheless breed to produce normal offspring. Phylogenically, these Pokémon, with their soft bodies and lack of skeletons, are gastropods like Gastrodon.","","","","","","With their slender bodies and hollow fangs, these serpents are close relatives of Arbok. Curiously, while Snivy possess clear arms and legs, these limbs shrink upon their evolution into Servine and then practically disappear entirely when they become Serperior. Popular folklore says that these Pokémon lost their limbs as punishment for their arrogance. Scientists believe, however, that Snivy have arms and legs to compensate for only having a single leaf for photosynthesis; they are the most likely stage to have to pick fruits and Berries to survive. Once they evolve and grow more leaves, these limbs become useless, as Servine and Serperior can live entirely off of sunlight.","With their slender bodies and hollow fangs, these serpents are close relatives of Arbok. Curiously, while Snivy possess clear arms and legs, these limbs shrink upon their evolution into Servine and then practically disappear entirely when they become Serperior. Popular folklore says that these Pokémon lost their limbs as punishment for their arrogance. Scientists believe, however, that Snivy have arms and legs to compensate for only having a single leaf for photosynthesis; they are the most likely stage to have to pick fruits and Berries to survive. Once they evolve and grow more leaves, these limbs become useless, as Servine and Serperior can live entirely off of sunlight.","With their slender bodies and hollow fangs, these serpents are close relatives of Arbok. Curiously, while Snivy possess clear arms and legs, these limbs shrink upon their evolution into Servine and then practically disappear entirely when they become Serperior. Popular folklore says that these Pokémon lost their limbs as punishment for their arrogance. Scientists believe, however, that Snivy have arms and legs to compensate for only having a single leaf for photosynthesis; they are the most likely stage to have to pick fruits and Berries to survive. Once they evolve and grow more leaves, these limbs become useless, as Servine and Serperior can live entirely off of sunlight.","Emboar are related to Grumpig; both are artiodactyls, specifically swines. While many Fire-types possess some sort of internal organ that produces or contains fire, Emboar are unique in how they store fuel for their flames. Much of the food that they eat is stored as fat, which builds up around their bodies. They then burn these lipids as fuel for their attacks; the fat also helps keep these Pokémon insulated during cold weather. As a trade-off for this, however, Emboar have to eat near-constantly in order to maintain a steady supply of fuel; if they burn off too much, they will be left both fire-less and unprotected from the cold.","Emboar are related to Grumpig; both are artiodactyls, specifically swines. While many Fire-types possess some sort of internal organ that produces or contains fire, Emboar are unique in how they store fuel for their flames. Much of the food that they eat is stored as fat, which builds up around their bodies. They then burn these lipids as fuel for their attacks; the fat also helps keep these Pokémon insulated during cold weather. As a trade-off for this, however, Emboar have to eat near-constantly in order to maintain a steady supply of fuel; if they burn off too much, they will be left both fire-less and unprotected from the cold.","Emboar are related to Grumpig; both are artiodactyls, specifically swines. While many Fire-types possess some sort of internal organ that produces or contains fire, Emboar are unique in how they store fuel for their flames. Much of the food that they eat is stored as fat, which builds up around their bodies. They then burn these lipids as fuel for their attacks; the fat also helps keep these Pokémon insulated during cold weather. As a trade-off for this, however, Emboar have to eat near-constantly in order to maintain a steady supply of fuel; if they burn off too much, they will be left both fire-less and unprotected from the cold.","These semiaquatic mammals are pinnipeds, making them relatives of Walrein and even moreso Primarina. Though they aren’t tusked like their relatives, they wield similarly-sharp, shell-like implements like weapons. Oshawott and Dewott use scalchops while Samurott hold seamitars. These Pokémon grow their implements as they develop on special patches of skin, much like they grow their own teeth and claws. Once “ready,” the weapons can be snapped off at specific, brittle locations and sharpened on nearby boulders. Both scalchops and seamitars take a very long time to regrow, however, so they are protected very fiercely.","These semiaquatic mammals are pinnipeds, making them relatives of Walrein and even moreso Primarina. Though they aren’t tusked like their relatives, they wield similarly-sharp, shell-like implements like weapons. Oshawott and Dewott use scalchops while Samurott hold seamitars. These Pokémon grow their implements as they develop on special patches of skin, much like they grow their own teeth and claws. Once “ready,” the weapons can be snapped off at specific, brittle locations and sharpened on nearby boulders. Both scalchops and seamitars take a very long time to regrow, however, so they are protected very fiercely.","These semiaquatic mammals are pinnipeds, making them relatives of Walrein and even moreso Primarina. Though they aren’t tusked like their relatives, they wield similarly-sharp, shell-like implements like weapons. Oshawott and Dewott use scalchops while Samurott hold seamitars. These Pokémon grow their implements as they develop on special patches of skin, much like they grow their own teeth and claws. Once “ready,” the weapons can be snapped off at specific, brittle locations and sharpened on nearby boulders. Both scalchops and seamitars take a very long time to regrow, however, so they are protected very fiercely.","These Pokémon are actually somewhat related to felines, though they are most closely related to Zangoose and Gumshoos. They are notable for the complex “guard system” they employ to protect their burrows; the practice somewhat resembles that of the unrelated Sentret in that one or more members of the group willingly increases its odds of being seen by predators in order to protect its allies; this is an example of altruism. Though Furret outgrow this behavior upon evolution, Watchog continue to practice it even when they seem like they would be capable of defending themselves alone, likely because it still increases their chances of survival.","These Pokémon are actually somewhat related to felines, though they are most closely related to Zangoose and Gumshoos. They are notable for the complex “guard system” they employ to protect their burrows; the practice somewhat resembles that of the unrelated Sentret in that one or more members of the group willingly increases its odds of being seen by predators in order to protect its allies; this is an example of altruism. Though Furret outgrow this behavior upon evolution, Watchog continue to practice it even when they seem like they would be capable of defending themselves alone, likely because it still increases their chances of survival.","While many canines have been domesticated by humans (Arcanine and Boltund spring to mind), Stoutland are inarguably man’s first and best friend; these Pokémon have been alongside humanity for so long that they have adapted their lifestyles to mesh with it. They are thought to have been our first step towards Pokémon training, helping people hunt even before the first Poké Ball was created. Most canines possess a sense of pack loyalty, but scientists believe Stoutland was especially suited for domestication because Lillipup were predisposed to developing early bonds; they could not defend themselves like the similar Growlithe, so they more readily accepted care from others.","While many canines have been domesticated by humans (Arcanine and Boltund spring to mind), Stoutland are inarguably man’s first and best friend; these Pokémon have been alongside humanity for so long that they have adapted their lifestyles to mesh with it. They are thought to have been our first step towards Pokémon training, helping people hunt even before the first Poké Ball was created. Most canines possess a sense of pack loyalty, but scientists believe Stoutland was especially suited for domestication because Lillipup were predisposed to developing early bonds; they could not defend themselves like the similar Growlithe, so they more readily accepted care from others.","While many canines have been domesticated by humans (Arcanine and Boltund spring to mind), Stoutland are inarguably man’s first and best friend; these Pokémon have been alongside humanity for so long that they have adapted their lifestyles to mesh with it. They are thought to have been our first step towards Pokémon training, helping people hunt even before the first Poké Ball was created. Most canines possess a sense of pack loyalty, but scientists believe Stoutland was especially suited for domestication because Lillipup were predisposed to developing early bonds; they could not defend themselves like the similar Growlithe, so they more readily accepted care from others.","Although Purrloin very much resemble traditional “small cats” like Meowth and Skitty (and similarly are often found in urban areas), these Pokémon are actually “big cats,” like Incineroar and Luxray. They are the smallest member of this group, an inversion in a sense of how Persian are the largest members of the small cats. In terms of behavior, these Pokémon are definitely wild; though it can be argued that Purrloin can be tamed to be at least as “well-behaved” as Glameow (which isn’t saying much at all), Liepard can hardly be domesticated at all; they should not be kept as pets by the average city-dweller, even if their pre-evolutions are debatably docile.","Although Purrloin very much resemble traditional “small cats” like Meowth and Skitty (and similarly are often found in urban areas), these Pokémon are actually “big cats,” like Incineroar and Luxray. They are the smallest member of this group, an inversion in a sense of how Persian are the largest members of the small cats. In terms of behavior, these Pokémon are definitely wild; though it can be argued that Purrloin can be tamed to be at least as “well-behaved” as Glameow (which isn’t saying much at all), Liepard can hardly be domesticated at all; they should not be kept as pets by the average city-dweller, even if their pre-evolutions are debatably docile.","These three Pokémon are so closely related that some scientists argue that they all should be considered subspecies of a single species; however, since they do not naturally breed together in the wild, they are distinguished in most modern texts. Researchers believe that a very recent common ancestor of these Pokémon radially adapted to fill a number of different niches; Simisage can climb trees in thick woodlands, Simisear can inhabit abandoned, extinct volcanoes, and Simipour can water plants near lakes. They are intelligent creatures that are thought to be rather closely related to humans; their agricultural tendencies only further support this hypothesis.","These three Pokémon are so closely related that some scientists argue that they all should be considered subspecies of a single species; however, since they do not naturally breed together in the wild, they are distinguished in most modern texts. Researchers believe that a very recent common ancestor of these Pokémon radially adapted to fill a number of different niches; Simisage can climb trees in thick woodlands, Simisear can inhabit abandoned, extinct volcanoes, and Simipour can water plants near lakes. They are intelligent creatures that are thought to be rather closely related to humans; their agricultural tendencies only further support this hypothesis.","These three Pokémon are so closely related that some scientists argue that they all should be considered subspecies of a single species; however, since they do not naturally breed together in the wild, they are distinguished in most modern texts. Researchers believe that a very recent common ancestor of these Pokémon radially adapted to fill a number of different niches; Simisage can climb trees in thick woodlands, Simisear can inhabit abandoned, extinct volcanoes, and Simipour can water plants near lakes. They are intelligent creatures that are thought to be rather closely related to humans; their agricultural tendencies only further support this hypothesis.","These three Pokémon are so closely related that some scientists argue that they all should be considered subspecies of a single species; however, since they do not naturally breed together in the wild, they are distinguished in most modern texts. Researchers believe that a very recent common ancestor of these Pokémon radially adapted to fill a number of different niches; Simisage can climb trees in thick woodlands, Simisear can inhabit abandoned, extinct volcanoes, and Simipour can water plants near lakes. They are intelligent creatures that are thought to be rather closely related to humans; their agricultural tendencies only further support this hypothesis.","These three Pokémon are so closely related that some scientists argue that they all should be considered subspecies of a single species; however, since they do not naturally breed together in the wild, they are distinguished in most modern texts. Researchers believe that a very recent common ancestor of these Pokémon radially adapted to fill a number of different niches; Simisage can climb trees in thick woodlands, Simisear can inhabit abandoned, extinct volcanoes, and Simipour can water plants near lakes. They are intelligent creatures that are thought to be rather closely related to humans; their agricultural tendencies only further support this hypothesis.","These three Pokémon are so closely related that some scientists argue that they all should be considered subspecies of a single species; however, since they do not naturally breed together in the wild, they are distinguished in most modern texts. Researchers believe that a very recent common ancestor of these Pokémon radially adapted to fill a number of different niches; Simisage can climb trees in thick woodlands, Simisear can inhabit abandoned, extinct volcanoes, and Simipour can water plants near lakes. They are intelligent creatures that are thought to be rather closely related to humans; their agricultural tendencies only further support this hypothesis.","These Pokémon are very closely related to Hypno, as both are perissodactyls that feed on dreams. Musharna are famous for their Dream Mist, a byproduct of the dreams that they consume. The mist is soporific; inhalation will cause a being to fall asleep and experience the dreams held within. While its use as a sleeping aid is obvious, Dream Mist is heavily controlled because of its potential as a hallucinogen; exposure to multiple sources of Dream Mist simultaneously can cause a person to experience all of the contained dreams at once. This practice can be very mentally and psychologically harmful, particularly when mixing different colors of mist.","These Pokémon are very closely related to Hypno, as both are perissodactyls that feed on dreams. Musharna are famous for their Dream Mist, a byproduct of the dreams that they consume. The mist is soporific; inhalation will cause a being to fall asleep and experience the dreams held within. While its use as a sleeping aid is obvious, Dream Mist is heavily controlled because of its potential as a hallucinogen; exposure to multiple sources of Dream Mist simultaneously can cause a person to experience all of the contained dreams at once. This practice can be very mentally and psychologically harmful, particularly when mixing different colors of mist.","Pidove are similar to Pidgey and Starly in terms of their ecological niche, inhabiting cities in large numbers (though not as numerous as Starly) while their evolutions move out into the wilderness. People even once tried to use Pidove as messengers like Pidgey, though their forgetfulness made them a poor option for this task. Research shows, however, that these Pokémon are actually more closely related to Blaziken, who share the line’s strong legs. Unfezant are also notable for being extreme examples of sexual dimorphism and selection, as the elaborate patterns of the males are directly attributable to how females select their mates.","Pidove are similar to Pidgey and Starly in terms of their ecological niche, inhabiting cities in large numbers (though not as numerous as Starly) while their evolutions move out into the wilderness. People even once tried to use Pidove as messengers like Pidgey, though their forgetfulness made them a poor option for this task. Research shows, however, that these Pokémon are actually more closely related to Blaziken, who share the line’s strong legs. Unfezant are also notable for being extreme examples of sexual dimorphism and selection, as the elaborate patterns of the males are directly attributable to how females select their mates.","Pidove are similar to Pidgey and Starly in terms of their ecological niche, inhabiting cities in large numbers (though not as numerous as Starly) while their evolutions move out into the wilderness. People even once tried to use Pidove as messengers like Pidgey, though their forgetfulness made them a poor option for this task. Research shows, however, that these Pokémon are actually more closely related to Blaziken, who share the line’s strong legs. Unfezant are also notable for being extreme examples of sexual dimorphism and selection, as the elaborate patterns of the males are directly attributable to how females select their mates.","Most people know that Zebstrika are very closely related to Rapidash and Mudsdale, as all of these Pokémon resemble each other physiologically. Zebstrika are starkly different in terms of temperament, however; they are wildly unpredictable and irritable, making them almost impossible to domesticate. This certainly isn’t from lack of trying, however, as many different groups and organizations have attempted to tame these erratic Pokémon over the past centuries. Their persistent resistance to domestication has even given birth to a popular saying in Unova; the phrase “when the saddle stays on the Zebstrika” is used to express incredulity or disbelief.","Most people know that Zebstrika are very closely related to Rapidash and Mudsdale, as all of these Pokémon resemble each other physiologically. Zebstrika are starkly different in terms of temperament, however; they are wildly unpredictable and irritable, making them almost impossible to domesticate. This certainly isn’t from lack of trying, however, as many different groups and organizations have attempted to tame these erratic Pokémon over the past centuries. Their persistent resistance to domestication has even given birth to a popular saying in Unova; the phrase “when the saddle stays on the Zebstrika” is used to express incredulity or disbelief.","These Pokémon are very odd, even for an inorganic species. They don’t possess conventional facial features (at least in earlier forms), and they dwell deep in the earth where little other life can survive. Perhaps most amazingly, Gigalith have essentially developed photosynthesis despite not even being organic life forms; the process is of course drastically different, but it is interesting nonetheless. The radioactive cores within these Pokémon are also subject to intense research. Little to no radiation is emitted from their bodies, so they do a spectacular job of containing such immense energy within themselves; scientists wish to copy this containment in artificial structures.","These Pokémon are very odd, even for an inorganic species. They don’t possess conventional facial features (at least in earlier forms), and they dwell deep in the earth where little other life can survive. Perhaps most amazingly, Gigalith have essentially developed photosynthesis despite not even being organic life forms; the process is of course drastically different, but it is interesting nonetheless. The radioactive cores within these Pokémon are also subject to intense research. Little to no radiation is emitted from their bodies, so they do a spectacular job of containing such immense energy within themselves; scientists wish to copy this containment in artificial structures.","These Pokémon are very odd, even for an inorganic species. They don’t possess conventional facial features (at least in earlier forms), and they dwell deep in the earth where little other life can survive. Perhaps most amazingly, Gigalith have essentially developed photosynthesis despite not even being organic life forms; the process is of course drastically different, but it is interesting nonetheless. The radioactive cores within these Pokémon are also subject to intense research. Little to no radiation is emitted from their bodies, so they do a spectacular job of containing such immense energy within themselves; scientists wish to copy this containment in artificial structures.","These chiropterans are actually very similar to their close relatives Zubat in function, even if they don’t bear much of a physical resemblance. Most pertinently, they are both cave-dwelling, flying mammals that have poor senses of sight and use echolocation to navigate. Though both evolutions have eyes, they are practically non-functional in Woobat and pale in comparison to the ears of Swoobat. These Pokémon fill a very similar niche as Zubat, but trade in an association with blood-sucking and venom for hearts and affection. Their fur is thought to help them withstand cooler cave environments than their relatives.","These chiropterans are actually very similar to their close relatives Zubat in function, even if they don’t bear much of a physical resemblance. Most pertinently, they are both cave-dwelling, flying mammals that have poor senses of sight and use echolocation to navigate. Though both evolutions have eyes, they are practically non-functional in Woobat and pale in comparison to the ears of Swoobat. These Pokémon fill a very similar niche as Zubat, but trade in an association with blood-sucking and venom for hearts and affection. Their fur is thought to help them withstand cooler cave environments than their relatives.","These insectivorans are most closely related to Dugtrio, who are also tunnel-digging, subterranean creatures that eat insects and plant matter during some point of their lives. Excadrill differ in that they hunt other mammals (and in that they actually will fully surface above the soil), but these similarities lead scientists to believe that Diglett somewhat resemble Drilbur beneath the surface. Recently, researchers have suggested that these Pokémon actually eat some of the soil that they burrow through; they hypothesized that this is likely how Excadrill obtain the necessary metals to develop their steel-hard claws.","These insectivorans are most closely related to Dugtrio, who are also tunnel-digging, subterranean creatures that eat insects and plant matter during some point of their lives. Excadrill differ in that they hunt other mammals (and in that they actually will fully surface above the soil), but these similarities lead scientists to believe that Diglett somewhat resemble Drilbur beneath the surface. Recently, researchers have suggested that these Pokémon actually eat some of the soil that they burrow through; they hypothesized that this is likely how Excadrill obtain the necessary metals to develop their steel-hard claws.","Audino are thought to be lagomorphs, though highly-diverged ones at that. They share the order’s superb hearing (as seen in Wigglytuff, for instance), though they have developed “feelers” that allow them to pinpoint specific areas to listen in on. In the wild, they are thought to hold these feelers against Berries as they tap them to see if they are ripe, or perhaps against the ground to detect vibrations and sense approaching danger. Audino are often seen as a parallel to Chansey, especially in Unova, where they replace them in Pokémon Centers entirely. While Chansey deal with palliative care, though, Audino usually measure vitals prior to treatment. ","Conkeldurr are humanoids, and while they share many similarities with Machamp, they are actually thought to be more closely related to Hariyama. These Fighting-types are famous for their architectural prowess; they are believed to have created concrete and are thought to have taught humans how to do the same. Many famous buildings around the world were designed or built with the aid of these Pokémon.The Skyarrow Bridge in Unova (as well as many of the high-rise buildings in Castelia City) was built by Timburr and Gurdurr, for instance, while the Ribbon Syndicate building in the Resort Area of Sinnoh’s Battle Zone was designed by a Conkeldurr.","Conkeldurr are humanoids, and while they share many similarities with Machamp, they are actually thought to be more closely related to Hariyama. These Fighting-types are famous for their architectural prowess; they are believed to have created concrete and are thought to have taught humans how to do the same. Many famous buildings around the world were designed or built with the aid of these Pokémon.The Skyarrow Bridge in Unova (as well as many of the high-rise buildings in Castelia City) was built by Timburr and Gurdurr, for instance, while the Ribbon Syndicate building in the Resort Area of Sinnoh’s Battle Zone was designed by a Conkeldurr.","Conkeldurr are humanoids, and while they share many similarities with Machamp, they are actually thought to be more closely related to Hariyama. These Fighting-types are famous for their architectural prowess; they are believed to have created concrete and are thought to have taught humans how to do the same. Many famous buildings around the world were designed or built with the aid of these Pokémon.The Skyarrow Bridge in Unova (as well as many of the high-rise buildings in Castelia City) was built by Timburr and Gurdurr, for instance, while the Ribbon Syndicate building in the Resort Area of Sinnoh’s Battle Zone was designed by a Conkeldurr.","Seismitoad are more closely related to Toxicroak than they are to other anurans. In terms of ecological niches, however, they fulfill a very similar role to the Poliwag family (though they tend to inhabit muddier, oxygen-poor environments). They are notable for the numerous vibrating organs they have within their bumps, which they use to both communicate and defend themselves. Seismitoad are also infamous for the hallucinogenic toxin they secrete from their skin; while ingestion of Seismitoad toxin was not unheard of prior to the 1960s, it was not until a sensationalist article in a Kalos magazine was published that it became more commonplace (and illegal).","Seismitoad are more closely related to Toxicroak than they are to other anurans. In terms of ecological niches, however, they fulfill a very similar role to the Poliwag family (though they tend to inhabit muddier, oxygen-poor environments). They are notable for the numerous vibrating organs they have within their bumps, which they use to both communicate and defend themselves. Seismitoad are also infamous for the hallucinogenic toxin they secrete from their skin; while ingestion of Seismitoad toxin was not unheard of prior to the 1960s, it was not until a sensationalist article in a Kalos magazine was published that it became more commonplace (and illegal).","Seismitoad are more closely related to Toxicroak than they are to other anurans. In terms of ecological niches, however, they fulfill a very similar role to the Poliwag family (though they tend to inhabit muddier, oxygen-poor environments). They are notable for the numerous vibrating organs they have within their bumps, which they use to both communicate and defend themselves. Seismitoad are also infamous for the hallucinogenic toxin they secrete from their skin; while ingestion of Seismitoad toxin was not unheard of prior to the 1960s, it was not until a sensationalist article in a Kalos magazine was published that it became more commonplace (and illegal).","Throh and Sawk are both thought to be one of the most primitive species included within the humanoid group. They are particularly notable for one skill in particular that demonstrates their intellect—weaving. These Pokémon use the fibrous inner tissue of plant shoots to weave their own judogis (Throh) and karategis (Sawk), finishing them off by tying vines around their waists as belts. It isn’t much of a surprise that these Pokémon are very closely related to one another, having diverged very recently. While their differing body shapes help them better practice their respective martial arts, scientists aren’t sure why they evolved to be such so different in coloration.","Throh and Sawk are both thought to be one of the most primitive species included within the humanoid group. They are particularly notable for one skill in particular that demonstrates their intellect—weaving. These Pokémon use the fibrous inner tissue of plant shoots to weave their own judogis (Throh) and karategis (Sawk), finishing them off by tying vines around their waists as belts. It isn’t much of a surprise that these Pokémon are very closely related to one another, having diverged very recently. While their differing body shapes help them better practice their respective martial arts, scientists aren’t sure why they evolved to be such so different in coloration.","","Leavanny are commonly mistaken to be in the same order as Scizor; while they are indeed their closest relatives, these Pokémon actually are placed in an entirely unique order of their own. These Pokémon are famous for their leafy clothing, which they use to protect themselves from the sun and weather. Scientists are also interested in Leavanny’s parental instincts, as they are the only insects that raise their children to adulthood; Sewaddle have very high survival rates when compared to the likes of Wurmple, but Leavanny also only give birth to a few at a time. Swadloon are also considered an integral species where they dwell, acting as important decomposers.","Leavanny are commonly mistaken to be in the same order as Scizor; while they are indeed their closest relatives, these Pokémon actually are placed in an entirely unique order of their own. These Pokémon are famous for their leafy clothing, which they use to protect themselves from the sun and weather. Scientists are also interested in Leavanny’s parental instincts, as they are the only insects that raise their children to adulthood; Sewaddle have very high survival rates when compared to the likes of Wurmple, but Leavanny also only give birth to a few at a time. Swadloon are also considered an integral species where they dwell, acting as important decomposers.","These arthropods are actually part of their own class, Chilopoda, alongside Centiskorch. They are characterized by their many body segments and legs; one should note, however, that most of a Scolipede’s legs are actually short nubs that line their upper bodies. Four have evolved to become sturdier and support the Pokémon’s weight, and two more have become sharp spikes on their rears that resemble their antennae, perhaps to bewilder prey. Scientists believed that their legs shrank over evolutionary time because of how much energy it cost Scolipede to develop them; by using their horns to gore prey until they could no longer flee, these Pokémon could catch victims even on only four legs.","These arthropods are actually part of their own class, Chilopoda, alongside Centiskorch. They are characterized by their many body segments and legs; one should note, however, that most of a Scolipede’s legs are actually short nubs that line their upper bodies. Four have evolved to become sturdier and support the Pokémon’s weight, and two more have become sharp spikes on their rears that resemble their antennae, perhaps to bewilder prey. Scientists believed that their legs shrank over evolutionary time because of how much energy it cost Scolipede to develop them; by using their horns to gore prey until they could no longer flee, these Pokémon could catch victims even on only four legs.","These arthropods are actually part of their own class, Chilopoda, alongside Centiskorch. They are characterized by their many body segments and legs; one should note, however, that most of a Scolipede’s legs are actually short nubs that line their upper bodies. Four have evolved to become sturdier and support the Pokémon’s weight, and two more have become sharp spikes on their rears that resemble their antennae, perhaps to bewilder prey. Scientists believed that their legs shrank over evolutionary time because of how much energy it cost Scolipede to develop them; by using their horns to gore prey until they could no longer flee, these Pokémon could catch victims even on only four legs.","Whimsicott are known for their fluffy cotton, which is used to make clothing and cosmetic products. These Pokémon (and their cousins Eldegoss) are actually in the same family as Ferrothorn, who are their closest known relative. This naturally comes as a surprise to many, considering how soft Whimsicott are compared to their tough, thorny cousins. These Pokémon are often compared to Jumpluff; both species are lightweight Grass-types that use cottony puffs to float on winds. However, the two developed this ability separately. Jumpluff “cotton” is much different than Whimsicott cotton; it is largely unsuitable for fabric-making, as it is littered with spores.","Whimsicott are known for their fluffy cotton, which is used to make clothing and cosmetic products. These Pokémon (and their cousins Eldegoss) are actually in the same family as Ferrothorn, who are their closest known relative. This naturally comes as a surprise to many, considering how soft Whimsicott are compared to their tough, thorny cousins. These Pokémon are often compared to Jumpluff; both species are lightweight Grass-types that use cottony puffs to float on winds. However, the two developed this ability separately. Jumpluff “cotton” is much different than Whimsicott cotton; it is largely unsuitable for fabric-making, as it is littered with spores.","Lilligant are part of a group known as the monocots, a group of plant-like Pokémon that also includes Exeggcutor and Lurantis. They are known for having very specific preferences for their habitats. These Pokémon have been useful for humans for centuries. Petilil, for example, dwell near fertile soil perfect for agriculture, so they have historically been used to locate arable land. Their leaves are also valued as an herbal stimulant. Lilligant flowers are sublimely fragrant and utilized in aromatherapy. Because of their commercial value and fragile habitats, these vulnerable Pokémon are perhaps one of the most legally-protected species in the world.","Lilligant are part of a group known as the monocots, a group of plant-like Pokémon that also includes Exeggcutor and Lurantis. They are known for having very specific preferences for their habitats. These Pokémon have been useful for humans for centuries. Petilil, for example, dwell near fertile soil perfect for agriculture, so they have historically been used to locate arable land. Their leaves are also valued as an herbal stimulant. Lilligant flowers are sublimely fragrant and utilized in aromatherapy. Because of their commercial value and fragile habitats, these vulnerable Pokémon are perhaps one of the most legally-protected species in the world.","Basculin are perciformes; these freshwater Pokémon are relatives of Lumineon. While the Red-and Blue-Striped forms differ in fin and eye shape as well as color, they are still capable of interbreeding (and do so occasionally in the wild), so they are considered the same species. Scientists are baffled as to why a Pokémon would evolve to mindlessly attack others of its own species. Some hypothesize that this behavior may be an extension of familial protection; many Pokémon defend their offspring from others of the same species, so perhaps a random mutation early in their evolution triggered Basculin to recognize all members of their form as their “family.”","As their names may suggest, Krookodile are crocodilians, and as such are related to Feraligatr. Ample fossil evidence indicates that these Pokémon were once semiaquatic like their relatives. It is a mystery why they have adapted to life in sandy deserts; they share this evolutionary quirk with Hippowdon. Because two separate species evolved so similarly, some scientists use these Pokémon as evidence towards the existence of a major prehistoric catastrophe that dried up much of the world’s water. Most researchers are skeptical, however; such an event would have occurred far too quickly for any Pokémon to be able to adapt to it over evolutionary time.","As their names may suggest, Krookodile are crocodilians, and as such are related to Feraligatr. Ample fossil evidence indicates that these Pokémon were once semiaquatic like their relatives. It is a mystery why they have adapted to life in sandy deserts; they share this evolutionary quirk with Hippowdon. Because two separate species evolved so similarly, some scientists use these Pokémon as evidence towards the existence of a major prehistoric catastrophe that dried up much of the world’s water. Most researchers are skeptical, however; such an event would have occurred far too quickly for any Pokémon to be able to adapt to it over evolutionary time.","As their names may suggest, Krookodile are crocodilians, and as such are related to Feraligatr. Ample fossil evidence indicates that these Pokémon were once semiaquatic like their relatives. It is a mystery why they have adapted to life in sandy deserts; they share this evolutionary quirk with Hippowdon. Because two separate species evolved so similarly, some scientists use these Pokémon as evidence towards the existence of a major prehistoric catastrophe that dried up much of the world’s water. Most researchers are skeptical, however; such an event would have occurred far too quickly for any Pokémon to be able to adapt to it over evolutionary time.","These Pokémon are considered great apes, or hominids; they are thought to be the most primitive members of the group, which also includes Oranguru and the simian trio. They are of great interest to scientists and anthropologists alike; their ability to enter their “Zen Mode” seems to be a very advanced version of hibernation; these Pokémon essentially place themselves into stasis, greatly slowing all of their bodily functions. Their presence in the ruins of desert civilizations is also very intriguing. Many believe they used to guard these cities, which, if true, suggests that these humans may have learned how to tame Pokémon earlier than we thought.","These Pokémon are considered great apes, or hominids; they are thought to be the most primitive members of the group, which also includes Oranguru and the simian trio. They are of great interest to scientists and anthropologists alike; their ability to enter their “Zen Mode” seems to be a very advanced version of hibernation; these Pokémon essentially place themselves into stasis, greatly slowing all of their bodily functions. Their presence in the ruins of desert civilizations is also very intriguing. Many believe they used to guard these cities, which, if true, suggests that these humans may have learned how to tame Pokémon earlier than we thought.","Maractus are very close relatives of Cacturne. As desert dwellers, they have adapted to survive in very arid conditions. Their thorns are actually modified leaves that serve to protect them from predators. They also practice a specific form of photosynthesis known as CAM photosynthesis, which allows them to open their stomata at night and lessen water loss through transpiration. They perform this process while asleep, as they are diurnal. Maractus become particularly active after it rains, as rainfall will rehydrate their seeds and encourage them to reproduce quickly before the sand dries out again.","Although these Pokémon are crustaceans, they are entirely terrestrial. They share this trait with their closest relative, Crabominable. These Pokémon are famous for their stone shells, which they fashion out of nearby rocks in the area. Their shells protect them from predators, and these Pokémon don’t have to expend any energy to develop them—an evolutionary boon. As a trade-off, however, they do have to spend time finding and preparing rocks, and they are vulnerable until they do so. The benefits largely outweigh the costs, though, as stone is much more durable than the chitin that makes up their exoskeletons.","Although these Pokémon are crustaceans, they are entirely terrestrial. They share this trait with their closest relative, Crabominable. These Pokémon are famous for their stone shells, which they fashion out of nearby rocks in the area. Their shells protect them from predators, and these Pokémon don’t have to expend any energy to develop them—an evolutionary boon. As a trade-off, however, they do have to spend time finding and preparing rocks, and they are vulnerable until they do so. The benefits largely outweigh the costs, though, as stone is much more durable than the chitin that makes up their exoskeletons.","Scrafty are squamatans, making them related to Pokémon like Kecleon and Helioptile. They are famous for their simple, yet effective defensive tactic—using their shed skin to protect themselves. By simply not discarding their skin after they molt and letting it dry in the desert sun, they essentially fashion leather protection for themselves without having to expend any extra energy. Additionally, they can also use this adaptation to cloak themselves during sandstorms to protect their eyes and mouths. The baggy skins of these Pokémon have inspired the fashion of an urban youth subculture, earning them the nickname of “The Hoodlum Pokémon.”","Scrafty are squamatans, making them related to Pokémon like Kecleon and Helioptile. They are famous for their simple, yet effective defensive tactic—using their shed skin to protect themselves. By simply not discarding their skin after they molt and letting it dry in the desert sun, they essentially fashion leather protection for themselves without having to expend any extra energy. Additionally, they can also use this adaptation to cloak themselves during sandstorms to protect their eyes and mouths. The baggy skins of these Pokémon have inspired the fashion of an urban youth subculture, earning them the nickname of “The Hoodlum Pokémon.”","Sigilyph are mysterious Pokémon that share many parallels with Claydol—both Pokémon are clay-based and affiliated with desert civilizations. Additionally, they are thought to have perhaps patrolled and defended these societies from attackers. They also share most of these traits with Golurk, though the latter don’t have the same association with desert ruins in particular. Exactly how these three Pokémon are related, if they are at all, is still a mystery. Some people believe that ancient peoples may have actually created Sigilyph to defend their cities, but the geoglyph depicting this Pokémon seems to suggest that they were perhaps worshipped rather than commanded.","These Pokémon are perhaps better known by the superstitions surrounding them than by science itself. Yamask, with their eerily humanlike cries and masks, are said to be the spirits of a deceased ancient peoples; Cofagrigus are thought to trap and mummify grave robbers that sneak into their tombs. Phasmologists (scientists who specialize in studying spectral Ghost-types) believe that these Pokémon may actually be related to species like Trevenant and Palossand; all of them are Ghost-types that inhabit or create material bodies, which in the case of Cofagrigus are golden sarcophagi.","These Pokémon are perhaps better known by the superstitions surrounding them than by science itself. Yamask, with their eerily humanlike cries and masks, are said to be the spirits of a deceased ancient peoples; Cofagrigus are thought to trap and mummify grave robbers that sneak into their tombs. Phasmologists (scientists who specialize in studying spectral Ghost-types) believe that these Pokémon may actually be related to species like Trevenant and Palossand; all of them are Ghost-types that inhabit or create material bodies, which in the case of Cofagrigus are golden sarcophagi.","As their nickname of “The Prototurtle Pokémon” may suggest, these Pokémon are the ancestors of modern chelonians like Blastoise. Carracosta themselves descended from even more ancient reptiles; traces of this can be seen in their flippers, which still possess nubs where claws used to be. What once were individual digits fused together to form more hydrodynamic limbs. The hypothesis for their extinction also lines up nicely with that of their contemporaries; some huge disaster may have triggered a climate change, causing plants to die off. Only small, energy-efficient animals could survive on the scarce food supply, while slow and bulky Carracosta could not.","As their nickname of “The Prototurtle Pokémon” may suggest, these Pokémon are the ancestors of modern chelonians like Blastoise. Carracosta themselves descended from even more ancient reptiles; traces of this can be seen in their flippers, which still possess nubs where claws used to be. What once were individual digits fused together to form more hydrodynamic limbs. The hypothesis for their extinction also lines up nicely with that of their contemporaries; some huge disaster may have triggered a climate change, causing plants to die off. Only small, energy-efficient animals could survive on the scarce food supply, while slow and bulky Carracosta could not.","Archaeops are famous for being the ancestors of all all modern avian Pokémon. Though some believe that they are related to Aerodactyl, another prehistoric winged creature, Aerodactyl are in fact members of their own reptilian order. Looking at revived specimens of these Pokémon, it is easy to see how they bridge the gap between reptile and bird; they are scaled and tailed, like the former, but are also feathered and winged, like the latter. The discovery and eventual resurrection of this “missing link” is thought to be one of the greatest scientific milestones in the last 200 years.","Archaeops are famous for being the ancestors of all all modern avian Pokémon. Though some believe that they are related to Aerodactyl, another prehistoric winged creature, Aerodactyl are in fact members of their own reptilian order. Looking at revived specimens of these Pokémon, it is easy to see how they bridge the gap between reptile and bird; they are scaled and tailed, like the former, but are also feathered and winged, like the latter. The discovery and eventual resurrection of this “missing link” is thought to be one of the greatest scientific milestones in the last 200 years.","Garbodor are often compared to Muk and Weezing; they are largely composed of solid waste, much like Muk are associated with toxic sludge and Weezing are filled with poisonous gases. While their exact classification remains unclear, an increasing number of scientists have come to support the hypothesis that these Pokémon are actually a primitive type of fungi. It is believed that they may have evolved from simple decomposers into more elaborate creatures that both eat trash and use it to protect their own soft bodies. If this hypothesis is correct, Garbodor would likely be placed in the same class as Shuckle.","Garbodor are often compared to Muk and Weezing; they are largely composed of solid waste, much like Muk are associated with toxic sludge and Weezing are filled with poisonous gases. While their exact classification remains unclear, an increasing number of scientists have come to support the hypothesis that these Pokémon are actually a primitive type of fungi. It is believed that they may have evolved from simple decomposers into more elaborate creatures that both eat trash and use it to protect their own soft bodies. If this hypothesis is correct, Garbodor would likely be placed in the same class as Shuckle.","Zororak are vulpines, making them cousins of Ninetales, Alakazam, Thievul, and Delphox. While these aforementioned relatives may sport some tools of deception, Zoroark are masters of trickery. Their illusory skills are unmatched. Though traditional mirages involve the manipulation of light waves, the illusions of these Pokémon also have a psychological component; scientists have discovered that Zoroark are able to influence the minds of onlookers so that they perceive the world around them differently. This explains how those under the influence of their illusions can report actually feeling, smelling, or hearing imaginary things.","Zororak are vulpines, making them cousins of Ninetales, Alakazam, Thievul, and Delphox. While these aforementioned relatives may sport some tools of deception, Zoroark are masters of trickery. Their illusory skills are unmatched. Though traditional mirages involve the manipulation of light waves, the illusions of these Pokémon also have a psychological component; scientists have discovered that Zoroark are able to influence the minds of onlookers so that they perceive the world around them differently. This explains how those under the influence of their illusions can report actually feeling, smelling, or hearing imaginary things.","Cinccino are the sole member in their own family of rodents; they are related to Pokémon like Pachirisu and Emolga. Minccino are famed for their luxurious fur; they were often hunted for this very reason. Just over a century ago, these Pokémon were thought to have gone extinct from overhunting until a few individuals were discovered in a remote mountain crevice. Today, the species is strictly protected by almost all regions of the world, which has helped their numbers recover somewhat. Still poaching is a significant problem to their populations, and they are still critically endangered because of it.","Cinccino are the sole member in their own family of rodents; they are related to Pokémon like Pachirisu and Emolga. Minccino are famed for their luxurious fur; they were often hunted for this very reason. Just over a century ago, these Pokémon were thought to have gone extinct from overhunting until a few individuals were discovered in a remote mountain crevice. Today, the species is strictly protected by almost all regions of the world, which has helped their numbers recover somewhat. Still poaching is a significant problem to their populations, and they are still critically endangered because of it.","These humanoid Pokémon have been both feared and respected by humans over the course of history. Scientists believe that they are likely most closely related to the Ralts family as well as perhaps Florges. Though many people wish to have their fortunes told by Gothitelle, those that have already received their predictions almost always warn against it. One reason is that their cryptic prophecies are usually indecipherable until the events have already transpired, at which point they become clear in hindsight. Another reason is the so-called “curse of knowledge;” Gothitelle are burdened with knowledge about the future of their loved ones without the ability to alter it.","These humanoid Pokémon have been both feared and respected by humans over the course of history. Scientists believe that they are likely most closely related to the Ralts family as well as perhaps Florges. Though many people wish to have their fortunes told by Gothitelle, those that have already received their predictions almost always warn against it. One reason is that their cryptic prophecies are usually indecipherable until the events have already transpired, at which point they become clear in hindsight. Another reason is the so-called “curse of knowledge;” Gothitelle are burdened with knowledge about the future of their loved ones without the ability to alter it.","These humanoid Pokémon have been both feared and respected by humans over the course of history. Scientists believe that they are likely most closely related to the Ralts family as well as perhaps Florges. Though many people wish to have their fortunes told by Gothitelle, those that have already received their predictions almost always warn against it. One reason is that their cryptic prophecies are usually indecipherable until the events have already transpired, at which point they become clear in hindsight. Another reason is the so-called “curse of knowledge;” Gothitelle are burdened with knowledge about the future of their loved ones without the ability to alter it.","This species is a thrill to scientists in all fields. Biologists have two reasons to study these creatures—firstly, they are huge single-celled organisms, granting a macroscopic view of a microscopic entity. Secondly, they are an amazing example of convergent evolution, as their organelles have evolved to very much resemble the organs and organ systems of multicellular creatures. Engineers research Reuniclus to learn about their insulating cytoplasm and protective cell membranes. Finally, neuroscientists are particularly interested in Duosion; though other Pokémon have multiple brains, Duosion are the only organic Pokémon in which they share the same head.","This species is a thrill to scientists in all fields. Biologists have two reasons to study these creatures—firstly, they are huge single-celled organisms, granting a macroscopic view of a microscopic entity. Secondly, they are an amazing example of convergent evolution, as their organelles have evolved to very much resemble the organs and organ systems of multicellular creatures. Engineers research Reuniclus to learn about their insulating cytoplasm and protective cell membranes. Finally, neuroscientists are particularly interested in Duosion; though other Pokémon have multiple brains, Duosion are the only organic Pokémon in which they share the same head.","This species is a thrill to scientists in all fields. Biologists have two reasons to study these creatures—firstly, they are huge single-celled organisms, granting a macroscopic view of a microscopic entity. Secondly, they are an amazing example of convergent evolution, as their organelles have evolved to very much resemble the organs and organ systems of multicellular creatures. Engineers research Reuniclus to learn about their insulating cytoplasm and protective cell membranes. Finally, neuroscientists are particularly interested in Duosion; though other Pokémon have multiple brains, Duosion are the only organic Pokémon in which they share the same head.","While many bird Pokémon continue to look after their young after they hatch, Ducklett and Swanna are perhaps the most recognizable example of maternal care in avian species. Ducklett are almost entirely helpless on their own; they dutifully waddle behind their mothers until they become capable of defending themselves. These relatives of Farfetch’d are also notable for how their young imprint on their mothers at birth; they share this behavior with Togepi. Swanna are famous for the dancing, which is imitated in a similar style of classical dance. However, they are less well-known for their hostility; these Pokémon are very aggressive, even when childless.","While many bird Pokémon continue to look after their young after they hatch, Ducklett and Swanna are perhaps the most recognizable example of maternal care in avian species. Ducklett are almost entirely helpless on their own; they dutifully waddle behind their mothers until they become capable of defending themselves. These relatives of Farfetch’d are also notable for how their young imprint on their mothers at birth; they share this behavior with Togepi. Swanna are famous for the dancing, which is imitated in a similar style of classical dance. However, they are less well-known for their hostility; these Pokémon are very aggressive, even when childless.","Vanilluxe are thought to have been around for thousands of years; even so, they are believed to be the youngest of the purely ice-based Pokémon (the other two being Avalugg and Cryogonal). Though their cores can remain frigid for extended periods of time in temperate conditions, the slush that covers their heads melts almost immediately when temperatures rise. Scientists are unsure what purpose this slush serves, but some believe that it may help reflect sunlight away from their icy bodies and keep them from warming up. These Pokémon are also notable for being confined almost entirely to the southern hemisphere due to a recent warming period.","Vanilluxe are thought to have been around for thousands of years; even so, they are believed to be the youngest of the purely ice-based Pokémon (the other two being Avalugg and Cryogonal). Though their cores can remain frigid for extended periods of time in temperate conditions, the slush that covers their heads melts almost immediately when temperatures rise. Scientists are unsure what purpose this slush serves, but some believe that it may help reflect sunlight away from their icy bodies and keep them from warming up. These Pokémon are also notable for being confined almost entirely to the southern hemisphere due to a recent warming period.","Vanilluxe are thought to have been around for thousands of years; even so, they are believed to be the youngest of the purely ice-based Pokémon (the other two being Avalugg and Cryogonal). Though their cores can remain frigid for extended periods of time in temperate conditions, the slush that covers their heads melts almost immediately when temperatures rise. Scientists are unsure what purpose this slush serves, but some believe that it may help reflect sunlight away from their icy bodies and keep them from warming up. These Pokémon are also notable for being confined almost entirely to the southern hemisphere due to a recent warming period.","These cervid relatives of Stantler are famed for their close connection with the seasons. They change their physical appearances to camouflage with the shifting flora of the deciduous forests they call home. Deerling achieve this with the aid of moss growing on their fur; this moss is seeded upon birth and changes color to reflect humidity, sunlight, and other environmental conditions. Sawsbuck host their own vegetation on their horns. Recently, it was discovered that these Pokémon seem to partly regulate their own cycles based on the seasons; they respond to the smell of fallen, decaying leaves just as strongly as they do to their own autumn mating pheromones.","These cervid relatives of Stantler are famed for their close connection with the seasons. They change their physical appearances to camouflage with the shifting flora of the deciduous forests they call home. Deerling achieve this with the aid of moss growing on their fur; this moss is seeded upon birth and changes color to reflect humidity, sunlight, and other environmental conditions. Sawsbuck host their own vegetation on their horns. Recently, it was discovered that these Pokémon seem to partly regulate their own cycles based on the seasons; they respond to the smell of fallen, decaying leaves just as strongly as they do to their own autumn mating pheromones.","Emolga are rodents that are very closely related to their fellow Electric-type Pachirisu. They are notable for having evolved membranes under their arms that can catch wind currents and enable them to glide; though this isn’t exactly flight, it is enough to keep them away from most grounded predators (chiropterans like Crobat remain the only known mammals capable of true flight). This gliding technique is shared by the Pokémon Gliscor, who they are unrelated to. Scientists believe that these species may have developed gliding because it is more energy-efficient than flight, which requires flapping, though it is more dependent on environmental conditions as a trade-off.","These coleopterans are most famous for their method of evolution; they steal Shelmet shells and use them as armor. Their oddly-shaped horns are perfect for grasping and pulling their squishy bodies out. The evolutionary strategy of fashioning armor out from an outside source has been seen before in arthropods in the rock-dwelling Crustle. Though they use different protection, the general idea is the same; both Pokémon gain extremely durable shells without having to expend energy creating them themselves. Karrablast have small electrogenetic organs locate at the base of their horns; in the wild, they will use these organs to trigger their evolution with Shelmet.","These coleopterans are most famous for their method of evolution; they steal Shelmet shells and use them as armor. Their oddly-shaped horns are perfect for grasping and pulling their squishy bodies out. The evolutionary strategy of fashioning armor out from an outside source has been seen before in arthropods in the rock-dwelling Crustle. Though they use different protection, the general idea is the same; both Pokémon gain extremely durable shells without having to expend energy creating them themselves. Karrablast have small electrogenetic organs locate at the base of their horns; in the wild, they will use these organs to trigger their evolution with Shelmet.","Amoonguss are easily recognizable as fungi; they are perhaps the most archetypical example of this kingdom, at least moreso than relatives like Breloom. They are provide an excellent case study as to how traits that are not actively selected against can linger in a population. Though the Poké Ball patterns on Foongus disguise them from avian predators, they serve no such purpose when they evolve into Amoongus. However, since the designs don’t significantly hurt Amoongus’s survival fitness, they still remain present. Scientists believe that these Pokémon  may one day lose this trait, as research shows Amoonguss without the design fare slightly better in the wild.","Amoonguss are easily recognizable as fungi; they are perhaps the most archetypical example of this kingdom, at least moreso than relatives like Breloom. They are provide an excellent case study as to how traits that are not actively selected against can linger in a population. Though the Poké Ball patterns on Foongus disguise them from avian predators, they serve no such purpose when they evolve into Amoongus. However, since the designs don’t significantly hurt Amoongus’s survival fitness, they still remain present. Scientists believe that these Pokémon  may one day lose this trait, as research shows Amoonguss without the design fare slightly better in the wild.","These Pokémon are cnidarians, making them very close relatives of Tentacruel and also surprisingly Corsola. Like the former, Frillish and Jellicent have paralyzing tentacles that they use to immobilize prey. Frillish and Tentacool also both travel chiefly by floating along ocean currents, though Frillish have a great degree of control while swimming. These Pokémon sport a curious example of sexual dimorphism; males are blue and are said to resemble kings, while females are pink and seem to resemble queens. How or why they developed these features is unknown, but superstitious sailors point to this odd feature as evidence that these Pokémon used to be human.","These Pokémon are cnidarians, making them very close relatives of Tentacruel and also surprisingly Corsola. Like the former, Frillish and Jellicent have paralyzing tentacles that they use to immobilize prey. Frillish and Tentacool also both travel chiefly by floating along ocean currents, though Frillish have a great degree of control while swimming. These Pokémon sport a curious example of sexual dimorphism; males are blue and are said to resemble kings, while females are pink and seem to resemble queens. How or why they developed these features is unknown, but superstitious sailors point to this odd feature as evidence that these Pokémon used to be human.","Alomomola are surprisingly in the same order of fishes as Qwilfish; while their relatives are spiny and toxic, these creatures are slimy and healing. These properties are derived from the mucoid membranes that coat their bodies, which is antimicrobial and greatly facilitates the healing of wounds. Alomomola are also interesting because they seem to be instinctively altruistic, even towards Pokémon of other species. Scientists hypothesize that this behavior may encourage other Pokémon to leave them alone; indeed, most other marine species seem to avoid harming Alomomola, perhaps in an implied mutualistic relationship in which they will be healed if injured.","Galvantula are relatives of Ariados. They can be easily distinguished by their hairy bristles, which are an adaptation that Joltik developed to stick to the fur of their hosts. These Pokémon have also evolved a number of secondary eyes that aid them in depth perception and light detection. Perhaps their most amazing adaptation, however, is their ability to electrify their webs so that they can quickly immobilize fleeing prey. Their silk is nearly identical to that of Ariados in composition, but it is slightly modified to be highly conductive of electricity. Because of this property as well as its strength, it is currently being researched for use in electronics.","Galvantula are relatives of Ariados. They can be easily distinguished by their hairy bristles, which are an adaptation that Joltik developed to stick to the fur of their hosts. These Pokémon have also evolved a number of secondary eyes that aid them in depth perception and light detection. Perhaps their most amazing adaptation, however, is their ability to electrify their webs so that they can quickly immobilize fleeing prey. Their silk is nearly identical to that of Ariados in composition, but it is slightly modified to be highly conductive of electricity. Because of this property as well as its strength, it is currently being researched for use in electronics.","Oddly, these Pokémon are in the same family as Whimsicott. Because they dwell in dark caverns where they cannot photosynthesize, these Grass-types have evolved to instead siphon minerals from rocks (in the case of Ferroseed) or hunt live prey (in the case of Ferrothorn). Though scientists once believed that these Pokémon completely changed their feeding habits upon evolution, this isn’t strictly true. Ferroseed actually obtain organic nutrients by attaching themselves to decaying plant matter or carcasses, while Ferrothorn continue to siphon minerals through their feelers into order to maintain their hard exteriors.","Oddly, these Pokémon are in the same family as Whimsicott. Because they dwell in dark caverns where they cannot photosynthesize, these Grass-types have evolved to instead siphon minerals from rocks (in the case of Ferroseed) or hunt live prey (in the case of Ferrothorn). Though scientists once believed that these Pokémon completely changed their feeding habits upon evolution, this isn’t strictly true. Ferroseed actually obtain organic nutrients by attaching themselves to decaying plant matter or carcasses, while Ferrothorn continue to siphon minerals through their feelers into order to maintain their hard exteriors.","These Pokémon were discovered just over a hundred years ago in Unova’s Chargestone Cave. They caused much clamor amongst physicists, as they were reported to be capable of perpetual motion. Further study on the cave and the Pokémon themselves revealed that this isn’t quite the case, however; These Pokémon spin with the aid of magnetic force, converting it into electricity much like a generator. Still, their units are nearly frictionless, making them remarkably efficient. Because they lose so little energy to friction and can expend energy to continue spinning without magnetism, however, it is easy to see why they were thought to be ideal machines.","These Pokémon were discovered just over a hundred years ago in Unova’s Chargestone Cave. They caused much clamor amongst physicists, as they were reported to be capable of perpetual motion. Further study on the cave and the Pokémon themselves revealed that this isn’t quite the case, however; These Pokémon spin with the aid of magnetic force, converting it into electricity much like a generator. Still, their units are nearly frictionless, making them remarkably efficient. Because they lose so little energy to friction and can expend energy to continue spinning without magnetism, however, it is easy to see why they were thought to be ideal machines.","These Pokémon were discovered just over a hundred years ago in Unova’s Chargestone Cave. They caused much clamor amongst physicists, as they were reported to be capable of perpetual motion. Further study on the cave and the Pokémon themselves revealed that this isn’t quite the case, however; These Pokémon spin with the aid of magnetic force, converting it into electricity much like a generator. Still, their units are nearly frictionless, making them remarkably efficient. Because they lose so little energy to friction and can expend energy to continue spinning without magnetism, however, it is easy to see why they were thought to be ideal machines.","Eelektross are one of the most primitive chordates we know of so far. They are classified as fish, but are distinguishable by their lack of jaws; their circular, toothed mouths are flexible because of this. These Pokémon also have cartilaginous skeletons, much like Mantine and Sharpedo. Finally, they have evolved to be capable of life entirely on (damp) land. Their electromagnetic organs, which they use to shock prey, also help them levitate above the ground so they can “swim” in air. Slimy, moisture-retaining mucus coats their skin and allows them to spend extended periods of time away from sources of water without drying out.","Eelektross are one of the most primitive chordates we know of so far. They are classified as fish, but are distinguishable by their lack of jaws; their circular, toothed mouths are flexible because of this. These Pokémon also have cartilaginous skeletons, much like Mantine and Sharpedo. Finally, they have evolved to be capable of life entirely on (damp) land. Their electromagnetic organs, which they use to shock prey, also help them levitate above the ground so they can “swim” in air. Slimy, moisture-retaining mucus coats their skin and allows them to spend extended periods of time away from sources of water without drying out.","Eelektross are one of the most primitive chordates we know of so far. They are classified as fish, but are distinguishable by their lack of jaws; their circular, toothed mouths are flexible because of this. These Pokémon also have cartilaginous skeletons, much like Mantine and Sharpedo. Finally, they have evolved to be capable of life entirely on (damp) land. Their electromagnetic organs, which they use to shock prey, also help them levitate above the ground so they can “swim” in air. Slimy, moisture-retaining mucus coats their skin and allows them to spend extended periods of time away from sources of water without drying out.","Very little is known about these incredibly mysterious Pokémon. There have been no large-scale, official studies on these creatures, and no independent freelance researchers have been able to learn anything important about their behavior or origins. Because they were discovered so recently and look unlike most other known species of Pokémon, they still remain unclassified to this day; they share this state of limbo with the likes of Clefable, Lunatone, and Solrock (all of which are also puported to be from space). Theories about their possible extraterrestrial origins, while popular, have little to no evidence substantiating them. ","Very little is known about these incredibly mysterious Pokémon. There have been no large-scale, official studies on these creatures, and no independent freelance researchers have been able to learn anything important about their behavior or origins. Because they were discovered so recently and look unlike most other known species of Pokémon, they still remain unclassified to this day; they share this state of limbo with the likes of Clefable, Lunatone, and Solrock (all of which are also puported to be from space). Theories about their possible extraterrestrial origins, while popular, have little to no evidence substantiating them. ","Ghostly Chandelure burn through life energy as fuel. Disconcertingly, they are one of the only known species that actively prey upon humans; while Litwick may have lured wild Pokémon with their light while they fed and Chandelure are largely indiscriminate as to what they prey on, Lampent in particular seem to have an affinity for human hospitals and elderly homes. This is likely because no other places sport such a concentration of living beings approaching death. Lampent are feared as counterparts to Dusknoir for this reason, with some believing that evil souls are burned by them instead of being ferried to the underworld.","Ghostly Chandelure burn through life energy as fuel. Disconcertingly, they are one of the only known species that actively prey upon humans; while Litwick may have lured wild Pokémon with their light while they fed and Chandelure are largely indiscriminate as to what they prey on, Lampent in particular seem to have an affinity for human hospitals and elderly homes. This is likely because no other places sport such a concentration of living beings approaching death. Lampent are feared as counterparts to Dusknoir for this reason, with some believing that evil souls are burned by them instead of being ferried to the underworld.","Ghostly Chandelure burn through life energy as fuel. Disconcertingly, they are one of the only known species that actively prey upon humans; while Litwick may have lured wild Pokémon with their light while they fed and Chandelure are largely indiscriminate as to what they prey on, Lampent in particular seem to have an affinity for human hospitals and elderly homes. This is likely because no other places sport such a concentration of living beings approaching death. Lampent are feared as counterparts to Dusknoir for this reason, with some believing that evil souls are burned by them instead of being ferried to the underworld.","Haxorus are one of a few known draconians that are entirely wingless during all stages of development (the others are Kommo-o and Drampa). At first, they were thought to have perhaps lost the ability of flight over the course of evolution, but new evidence seems to support the idea that Haxorus may in fact have diverged from the lineage before wings were developed; thus, scientists have classified it in its own family, Draco (the remaining winged draconians are in the separate Dracoaves). This new data also suggests that Haxorus are the most primitive of the draconians, a distinction that once belonged to the non-Dragon-type Charizard.","Haxorus are one of a few known draconians that are entirely wingless during all stages of development (the others are Kommo-o and Drampa). At first, they were thought to have perhaps lost the ability of flight over the course of evolution, but new evidence seems to support the idea that Haxorus may in fact have diverged from the lineage before wings were developed; thus, scientists have classified it in its own family, Draco (the remaining winged draconians are in the separate Dracoaves). This new data also suggests that Haxorus are the most primitive of the draconians, a distinction that once belonged to the non-Dragon-type Charizard.","Haxorus are one of a few known draconians that are entirely wingless during all stages of development (the others are Kommo-o and Drampa). At first, they were thought to have perhaps lost the ability of flight over the course of evolution, but new evidence seems to support the idea that Haxorus may in fact have diverged from the lineage before wings were developed; thus, scientists have classified it in its own family, Draco (the remaining winged draconians are in the separate Dracoaves). This new data also suggests that Haxorus are the most primitive of the draconians, a distinction that once belonged to the non-Dragon-type Charizard.","Beartic are clearly ursines like Bewear and Ursaring, but they have adapted to polar conditions. White fur helps Cubchoo blend into the ice and hide from predators, while wide paws help Beartic transverse loose snow. Cubchoo sport a rather unconventional defense mechanism in the form of their supercooling snot; scientists have discovered that it contains an antifreeze so it remains gooey even at subzero temperatures. Beartic are also unique because they have evolved to adept swimmers as they primarily hunt aquatic prey. They are apex predators and a keystone species where they dwell; however, a warming climate currently threatens the glaciers they call home.","Beartic are clearly ursines like Bewear and Ursaring, but they have adapted to polar conditions. White fur helps Cubchoo blend into the ice and hide from predators, while wide paws help Beartic transverse loose snow. Cubchoo sport a rather unconventional defense mechanism in the form of their supercooling snot; scientists have discovered that it contains an antifreeze so it remains gooey even at subzero temperatures. Beartic are also unique because they have evolved to adept swimmers as they primarily hunt aquatic prey. They are apex predators and a keystone species where they dwell; however, a warming climate currently threatens the glaciers they call home.","Scientists believe that Cryogonal are the most primitive ice-based Pokémon. Their hexagonal bodies mirrors that of a snowflake crystal are composed almost entirely of water. Two of their properties completely bewilder scientists. The first is how they sublimate and deposit, completely skipping liquid form. Unlike water, Cryogonal turn gaseous when above 32°F (0°C); it is unknown how or why they do this. The second is their predatory nature; since they are mostly water, researchers don’t know what these Pokémon do with the organic compounds they consume. Little formal research has been conducted on Cryogonal because of how elusive they are.","Accelgor are gastropods thought to be closely related to Magcargo. They are famous for how they evolve alongside Karrablast; however, scientists have for a long time been baffled as to why they seem to try their best to avoid and resist the very Pokémon they need for evolution. The most compelling explanation suggests that Shelmet may actually be evolutionarily-pressured to become neotenous; though incredibly fast, Accelgor are also very frail and exposed to the elements; additionally, they require much more energy to survive than Shelmet because they are active hunters. Thus, it is possible that Shelmet that resist evolution are more likely to survive and reproduce.","Accelgor are gastropods thought to be closely related to Magcargo. They are famous for how they evolve alongside Karrablast; however, scientists have for a long time been baffled as to why they seem to try their best to avoid and resist the very Pokémon they need for evolution. The most compelling explanation suggests that Shelmet may actually be evolutionarily-pressured to become neotenous; though incredibly fast, Accelgor are also very frail and exposed to the elements; additionally, they require much more energy to survive than Shelmet because they are active hunters. Thus, it is possible that Shelmet that resist evolution are more likely to survive and reproduce.","Stunfisk are ray-finned fishes, making them relatives of Pokémon like Seaking and Wishiwashi. They are most distinctive for their odd body plan; these Pokémon are entirely flat, with both of their eyes having migrated to the same side of their bodies. This shape enables them to hide just barely beneath the mud of stagnant marshes and fens, waiting patiently for unwary prey to step on top of them. Though scientists once placed these Pokémon alongside Lanturn due to their similar electrogenetic organs, DNA evidence now proves that the two evolved their electrical powers separately; they are each classified in their own order as a result.","These mustelids are relatives of Furret, Floatzel, and Weavile. They are notable for their long arm fur, which hangs over the wrists of Mienfoo and completely drapes the hands of Mienshao. They have adapted their own fur into what are essentially whips. Scientists believe that this species may have adapted longer fur in order to dwell in the chillier altitudes of mountains; however their arm fur was very likely an extreme variation that resulted from mutation and persisted over generations because of its usefulness. Like their relatives, Mienshao are agile creatures that use their speed to outmaneuver their opponents.","These mustelids are relatives of Furret, Floatzel, and Weavile. They are notable for their long arm fur, which hangs over the wrists of Mienfoo and completely drapes the hands of Mienshao. They have adapted their own fur into what are essentially whips. Scientists believe that this species may have adapted longer fur in order to dwell in the chillier altitudes of mountains; however their arm fur was very likely an extreme variation that resulted from mutation and persisted over generations because of its usefulness. Like their relatives, Mienshao are agile creatures that use their speed to outmaneuver their opponents.","Druddigon are a species of winged draconians adapted to life in caverns. They inhabit the abandoned tunnels of burrowing Pokémon like Onix and Excadrill; because these labyrinths are often just barely wide enough for them to travel through, however. these Pokémon have gradually lost the ability to fly over time, their wings having become incapable of lifting their own body weight. These ectotherms have repurposed these appendages, however, to spread flat against their backs to maximize surface area when sunbathing. Scientists often point to Druddigon as an example of how structures once intended for a certain function can be evolutionarily repurposed for another.","As with many other inorganic Pokémon, the origins of this species are unclear. They share more than a few similarities with Claydol and Sigilyph, both of which are also clay-based creatures that are believed by some to have been created by ancient humans (though they disagree as to whether or not the same technology, or even the same people, created all of these Pokémon). However, both Golett and Golurk seem to be powered by a mysteriously, unidentifiable energy located within their chests. Though some believe this may be the result of some sort of perpetual motion machine, their Ghost-typings suggest that this energy may possibly be spiritual in nature. For this reason, they are classified in Spectrae rather than Mineralia.","As with many other inorganic Pokémon, the origins of this species are unclear. They share more than a few similarities with Claydol and Sigilyph, both of which are also clay-based creatures that are believed by some to have been created by ancient humans (though they disagree as to whether or not the same technology, or even the same people, created all of these Pokémon). However, both Golett and Golurk seem to be powered by a mysteriously, unidentifiable energy located within their chests. Though some believe this may be the result of some sort of perpetual motion machine, their Ghost-typings suggest that this energy may possibly be spiritual in nature. For this reason, they are classified in Spectrae rather than Mineralia.","These humanoids are most notable for the numerous, sharp blades that jut out from all over their bodies. While most appear to be modified horns or claws, the blades on their torsos that they use to latch onto enemies have no analogues, leading scientists to believe that they likely arose through random mutation. Pawniard and Bisharp are also unique amongst the humanoids because they follow a pack social structure with a clearly-defined leader. This is a characteristic seen most often in canines (and a few other species, notably the avian Honchkrow), so their use of it is very intriguing to behavioral scientists.","These humanoids are most notable for the numerous, sharp blades that jut out from all over their bodies. While most appear to be modified horns or claws, the blades on their torsos that they use to latch onto enemies have no analogues, leading scientists to believe that they likely arose through random mutation. Pawniard and Bisharp are also unique amongst the humanoids because they follow a pack social structure with a clearly-defined leader. This is a characteristic seen most often in canines (and a few other species, notably the avian Honchkrow), so their use of it is very intriguing to behavioral scientists.","Bouffalant are bovines like Tauros and Miltank. While all are thought to have descended from a common ancestor, Bouffalant are believed to be more similar to this relative than the other two.  Unlike Tauros and Miltank, Bouffalant have proven to be very resistant to domestication. Though individuals can easily be tamed (trained to be comfortable around humans), centuries of effort to domesticate them (breed them so they are genetically predisposed to be useful to us) have unquestionably failed. This odd difference mirrors that of the domesticable Rapidash and the related, but wild Zebstrika. Scientists are unsure why such contrast exists in such close relatives.","These birds of prey are most closely related to Staraptor. They represent the virtues of courage and loyalty in most regions, though some (notably Kanto and Johto) delegate this role to Fearow instead. Braviary are unique amongst their relatives in that they are primarily piscivorous, as they have adapted to thrive in wetland environments. The way these Pokémon raise their young is also notable; though they lay three eggs, they will only feed the most rambunctious while letting the other two perish. Scientists believe that this harsh process very strongly selects for Rufflet to be bigger and stronger, and thus more likely to survive once they leave the nest.","These birds of prey are most closely related to Staraptor. They represent the virtues of courage and loyalty in most regions, though some (notably Kanto and Johto) delegate this role to Fearow instead. Braviary are unique amongst their relatives in that they are primarily piscivorous, as they have adapted to thrive in wetland environments. The way these Pokémon raise their young is also notable; though they lay three eggs, they will only feed the most rambunctious while letting the other two perish. Scientists believe that this harsh process very strongly selects for Rufflet to be bigger and stronger, and thus more likely to survive once they leave the nest.","Though they were once classified alongside Skarmory, these Pokémon are today placed alongside the diurnal birds of prey like Staraptor and Talonflame. In most regions, Mandibuzz represent the virtue of wit (though Noctowl assume this role instead in Johto and Sinnoh). These Pokémon have a reputation for being cunning, if a bit devious, because of their primitive usage of “tools”—in addition to using bones to build their nests, they also fashion skulls and other bones into protection for themselves and their young. In this manner, they are able to repurpose the dry remains of the carcasses they scavenge after picking them clean.","Though they were once classified alongside Skarmory, these Pokémon are today placed alongside the diurnal birds of prey like Staraptor and Talonflame. In most regions, Mandibuzz represent the virtue of wit (though Noctowl assume this role instead in Johto and Sinnoh). These Pokémon have a reputation for being cunning, if a bit devious, because of their primitive usage of “tools”—in addition to using bones to build their nests, they also fashion skulls and other bones into protection for themselves and their young. In this manner, they are able to repurpose the dry remains of the carcasses they scavenge after picking them clean.","Oddly, Heatmor are the closest living relatives of Slaking. They are far more famous, however, for their predator-prey relationship with Durant. Heatmor have evolved to be incredibly specialized feeders, hunting Durant and nothing else. They are the most well-known example of an “evolutionary arms-race,” as they and Durant have evolved over thousands of years to resist and overcome the adaptations of the other. Most notably, Heatmor are believed to have developed their firepower as a direct response to the metal exoskeletons of Durant; what once was an adaptation Durant evolved to resist being preyed upon is now a weakness that Heatmor can easily exploit.","Although they are wingless, Durant are relatives of Vespiquen and Beedrill; they share their eusocial colony with the former. Durant are most famous for their co-evolution with Heatmor. The theory states that Heatmor used to be Normal-types thousands of years ago, using their claws and teeth to prey upon Bug-type Durant. Over time, Durant evolved steel exoskeletons so they could resist the attacks of their predators. In response, Heatmor evolved to be Fire-types to roast Durant within their own carapaces. In recent times, this theory has been met with increasing criticism, namely in how Heatmor could have developed their firepower so quickly.","These winged draconians have adapted to life in dark caverns. Their eyes have withered away into vestigial organs over time and evolution, leaving them blind as a result. For a long time, researchers thought that these Pokémon felt their way around with their heads and mouths, recklessly stumbling about in search of food. However, more recent studies seem to suggest that these Pokémon may have some sort of organ to help them detect the infrared thermal radiation of prey. Also notable is the polycephaly of Zweilous and Hydreigon; scientists are unsure why these Pokémon (and others like Dodrio) have evolved to be this way.","These winged draconians have adapted to life in dark caverns. Their eyes have withered away into vestigial organs over time and evolution, leaving them blind as a result. For a long time, researchers thought that these Pokémon felt their way around with their heads and mouths, recklessly stumbling about in search of food. However, more recent studies seem to suggest that these Pokémon may have some sort of organ to help them detect the infrared thermal radiation of prey. Also notable is the polycephaly of Zweilous and Hydreigon; scientists are unsure why these Pokémon (and others like Dodrio) have evolved to be this way.","These winged draconians have adapted to life in dark caverns. Their eyes have withered away into vestigial organs over time and evolution, leaving them blind as a result. For a long time, researchers thought that these Pokémon felt their way around with their heads and mouths, recklessly stumbling about in search of food. However, more recent studies seem to suggest that these Pokémon may have some sort of organ to help them detect the infrared thermal radiation of prey. Also notable is the polycephaly of Zweilous and Hydreigon; scientists are unsure why these Pokémon (and others like Dodrio) have evolved to be this way.","Majestic Volcarona are lepidopterans. Because they are hemimetabolic, they are thought to be relatives of Masquerain and Venomoth. One may notice that these Pokémon have six wings as opposed to the conventional two or four; scientists believe that this extra set of wings must serve some sort of purpose beyond flight, as they actually make Volcarona less agile than if they only had four wings. One hypothesis postulates that this additional set allows them to spread their fiery scales more quickly, allowing them to better defend themselves from attackers. Thus, they may give Volcarona a survival advantage despite slightly hindering their flight. ","Majestic Volcarona are lepidopterans. Because they are hemimetabolic, they are thought to be relatives of Masquerain and Venomoth. One may notice that these Pokémon have six wings as opposed to the conventional two or four; scientists believe that this extra set of wings must serve some sort of purpose beyond flight, as they actually make Volcarona less agile than if they only had four wings. One hypothesis postulates that this additional set allows them to spread their fiery scales more quickly, allowing them to better defend themselves from attackers. Thus, they may give Volcarona a survival advantage despite slightly hindering their flight. ","","","","","","","","","","","","","Chesnaught are very closely related to Togedemaru, who are similarly-spined to defend themselves from predators. However, while Togedemaru reinforce their spikes with metal, Chesnaught and their pre-evolutions instead utilize wood. They are also more distantly related to Dugtrio and Excadrill. These Pokémon hibernate during cold weather; by lowering their internal body temperatures, they can conserve valuable energy during times of hardship. Prior to hibernation, they will begin to consume more nuts, legumes, and other fat-rich foods in order to prepare for this period.","Chesnaught are very closely related to Togedemaru, who are similarly-spined to defend themselves from predators. However, while Togedemaru reinforce their spikes with metal, Chesnaught and their pre-evolutions instead utilize wood. They are also more distantly related to Dugtrio and Excadrill. These Pokémon hibernate during cold weather; by lowering their internal body temperatures, they can conserve valuable energy during times of hardship. Prior to hibernation, they will begin to consume more nuts, legumes, and other fat-rich foods in order to prepare for this period.","Chesnaught are very closely related to Togedemaru, who are similarly-spined to defend themselves from predators. However, while Togedemaru reinforce their spikes with metal, Chesnaught and their pre-evolutions instead utilize wood. They are also more distantly related to Dugtrio and Excadrill. These Pokémon hibernate during cold weather; by lowering their internal body temperatures, they can conserve valuable energy during times of hardship. Prior to hibernation, they will begin to consume more nuts, legumes, and other fat-rich foods in order to prepare for this period.","As bipedal vulpines, Delphox are closely related to Zoroark and Alakazam; like their relatives, they are able to wield mystical, almost-supernatural abilities in order to defend themselves while in combat. However, they are most closely related to Ninetales, who also share their Fire-typing. Delphox and their pre-evolutions are notable for their use of tools, specifically twigs. While sticks make up Fennekin’s diet, they become torches and wand-like apparatuses for Braixen and Delphox. Though all vulpines are considered very intelligent by most standards, this tool usage suggests that Delphox may be among the smartest of the group, second only to Alakazam.","As bipedal vulpines, Delphox are closely related to Zoroark and Alakazam; like their relatives, they are able to wield mystical, almost-supernatural abilities in order to defend themselves while in combat. However, they are most closely related to Ninetales, who also share their Fire-typing. Delphox and their pre-evolutions are notable for their use of tools, specifically twigs. While sticks make up Fennekin’s diet, they become torches and wand-like apparatuses for Braixen and Delphox. Though all vulpines are considered very intelligent by most standards, this tool usage suggests that Delphox may be among the smartest of the group, second only to Alakazam.","As bipedal vulpines, Delphox are closely related to Zoroark and Alakazam; like their relatives, they are able to wield mystical, almost-supernatural abilities in order to defend themselves while in combat. However, they are most closely related to Ninetales, who also share their Fire-typing. Delphox and their pre-evolutions are notable for their use of tools, specifically twigs. While sticks make up Fennekin’s diet, they become torches and wand-like apparatuses for Braixen and Delphox. Though all vulpines are considered very intelligent by most standards, this tool usage suggests that Delphox may be among the smartest of the group, second only to Alakazam.","Out of all of the anurans, Greninja are actually most closely related to the Poliwag family, even though they may more closely resemble Toxicroak in terms of physiology. Unique amongst their relatives Greninja have adapted to utilize speed and stealth as their primary methods of both defense and offense; consequently, however, they lack the poison of Toxicroak and Seismitoad or the brute strength of Poliwrath. Greninja are also notable for how they oddly store their tongues around their necks. It is thought that they do this because their heads have narrowed over time to become more streamlined, becoming too small for them to fit their long tongues into.","Out of all of the anurans, Greninja are actually most closely related to the Poliwag family, even though they may more closely resemble Toxicroak in terms of physiology. Unique amongst their relatives Greninja have adapted to utilize speed and stealth as their primary methods of both defense and offense; consequently, however, they lack the poison of Toxicroak and Seismitoad or the brute strength of Poliwrath. Greninja are also notable for how they oddly store their tongues around their necks. It is thought that they do this because their heads have narrowed over time to become more streamlined, becoming too small for them to fit their long tongues into.","Out of all of the anurans, Greninja are actually most closely related to the Poliwag family, even though they may more closely resemble Toxicroak in terms of physiology. Unique amongst their relatives Greninja have adapted to utilize speed and stealth as their primary methods of both defense and offense; consequently, however, they lack the poison of Toxicroak and Seismitoad or the brute strength of Poliwrath. Greninja are also notable for how they oddly store their tongues around their necks. It is thought that they do this because their heads have narrowed over time to become more streamlined, becoming too small for them to fit their long tongues into.","Diggersby are very closely related to Lopunny. Both Pokémon possess powerful, maneuverable ears that they use to defend themselves from attackers. However, while Lopunny also sport strong legs and utilize their agility to escape from danger, Diggersby instead have further developed their ears to become totally prehensile, even replacing their actual arms in many situations; they also burrow rather than leap away from threats. Diggersby also seem to be adapted to more rugged, rocky terrains, especially in temperate areas (Lopunny are more adapted to snowy weather thanks to their warm fur).","Diggersby are very closely related to Lopunny. Both Pokémon possess powerful, maneuverable ears that they use to defend themselves from attackers. However, while Lopunny also sport strong legs and utilize their agility to escape from danger, Diggersby instead have further developed their ears to become totally prehensile, even replacing their actual arms in many situations; they also burrow rather than leap away from threats. Diggersby also seem to be adapted to more rugged, rocky terrains, especially in temperate areas (Lopunny are more adapted to snowy weather thanks to their warm fur).","As a traditional bird of prey, Talonflame representing agility. It is very close relatives with Pidgeot, another bird of prey known for its speed (but even moreso for its beauty). Fletchling and Pidgey fill very similar niches in Kalos and Kanto, respectively, despite their significant physiological differences. Fletchinder and Talonflame are notable for their internal flame sacs. Although many Fire-type Pokémon possess such organs, these Pokémon utilize their sacs to power their flight in addition to producing flames; this mechanism is a bit similar to how members of the Tepig line burn fat to power their attacks, though it functions quite a bit differently in practice.","As a traditional bird of prey, Talonflame representing agility. It is very close relatives with Pidgeot, another bird of prey known for its speed (but even moreso for its beauty). Fletchling and Pidgey fill very similar niches in Kalos and Kanto, respectively, despite their significant physiological differences. Fletchinder and Talonflame are notable for their internal flame sacs. Although many Fire-type Pokémon possess such organs, these Pokémon utilize their sacs to power their flight in addition to producing flames; this mechanism is a bit similar to how members of the Tepig line burn fat to power their attacks, though it functions quite a bit differently in practice.","As a traditional bird of prey, Talonflame representing agility. It is very close relatives with Pidgeot, another bird of prey known for its speed (but even moreso for its beauty). Fletchling and Pidgey fill very similar niches in Kalos and Kanto, respectively, despite their significant physiological differences. Fletchinder and Talonflame are notable for their internal flame sacs. Although many Fire-type Pokémon possess such organs, these Pokémon utilize their sacs to power their flight in addition to producing flames; this mechanism is a bit similar to how members of the Tepig line burn fat to power their attacks, though it functions quite a bit differently in practice.","These lepidopterans are famous for two reasons. The first is because of their thermoregulatory black powder, which is currently being researched for industrial applications; it is thought that this powder also helps protect them from natural predators like Fletchinder. The second is because of the widely variable patterns of Vivillon wings. In the past, scientists believed that these patterns helped Vivillon camouflage. However, in some regions, Vivillon coloration stands out starkly from the environment. Thus, most researchers now believe that their patterns have evolved at least in part through some other mechanism, such as sexual selection or genetic drift.","These lepidopterans are famous for two reasons. The first is because of their thermoregulatory black powder, which is currently being researched for industrial applications; it is thought that this powder also helps protect them from natural predators like Fletchinder. The second is because of the widely variable patterns of Vivillon wings. In the past, scientists believed that these patterns helped Vivillon camouflage. However, in some regions, Vivillon coloration stands out starkly from the environment. Thus, most researchers now believe that their patterns have evolved at least in part through some other mechanism, such as sexual selection or genetic drift.","These lepidopterans are famous for two reasons. The first is because of their thermoregulatory black powder, which is currently being researched for industrial applications; it is thought that this powder also helps protect them from natural predators like Fletchinder. The second is because of the widely variable patterns of Vivillon wings. In the past, scientists believed that these patterns helped Vivillon camouflage. However, in some regions, Vivillon coloration stands out starkly from the environment. Thus, most researchers now believe that their patterns have evolved at least in part through some other mechanism, such as sexual selection or genetic drift.","Pyroar are “big cats.” In particular, they are very closely related to Luxray, who occupy the same niche in temperate grasslands that Pyroar do in arid ones. Pyroar are also notable for their sexual dimorphism and distinct gender roles in their prides. Male Pyroar hunt and lead while female Pyroar defend and care for young; this distinction does not exist in Luxray prides. Some scientists believe that Pyroar developed this task delegation because they do not have an intermediate stage of evolution like the Shinx line; Litleo cannot care for themselves, and without a stage like Luxio to care for them, this role is instead passed onto female Pyroar.","Pyroar are “big cats.” In particular, they are very closely related to Luxray, who occupy the same niche in temperate grasslands that Pyroar do in arid ones. Pyroar are also notable for their sexual dimorphism and distinct gender roles in their prides. Male Pyroar hunt and lead while female Pyroar defend and care for young; this distinction does not exist in Luxray prides. Some scientists believe that Pyroar developed this task delegation because they do not have an intermediate stage of evolution like the Shinx line; Litleo cannot care for themselves, and without a stage like Luxio to care for them, this role is instead passed onto female Pyroar.","Florges are an interesting case of symbiosis; the relationship between a Flabébé or a Floette and its flower seems to be mutualistic, but it should be noted that these flowers can survive on their own until they are picked by these Pokémon. Once picked, though, they will die if separated from their partners. These Pokémon do help tend to flowers that they have not picked, however, making the chosen flower an “opportunity cost” for flowering plants in exchange for meticulous care. Scientists once thought that these Pokémon are somewhat related to other humanlike species, like perhaps Gothitelle or Gardevoir, but the split the Fascinus genus from Similis has resulted in their reclassification.","Florges are an interesting case of symbiosis; the relationship between a Flabébé or a Floette and its flower seems to be mutualistic, but it should be noted that these flowers can survive on their own until they are picked by these Pokémon. Once picked, though, they will die if separated from their partners. These Pokémon do help tend to flowers that they have not picked, however, making the chosen flower an “opportunity cost” for flowering plants in exchange for meticulous care. Scientists once thought that these Pokémon are somewhat related to other humanlike species, like perhaps Gothitelle or Gardevoir, but the split the Fascinus genus from Similis has resulted in their reclassification.","Florges are an interesting case of symbiosis; the relationship between a Flabébé or a Floette and its flower seems to be mutualistic, but it should be noted that these flowers can survive on their own until they are picked by these Pokémon. Once picked, though, they will die if separated from their partners. These Pokémon do help tend to flowers that they have not picked, however, making the chosen flower an “opportunity cost” for flowering plants in exchange for meticulous care. Scientists once thought that these Pokémon are somewhat related to other humanlike species, like perhaps Gothitelle or Gardevoir, but the split the Fascinus genus from Similis has resulted in their reclassification.","Gogoat are ovids like Ampharos. Like their relatives, they have also been domesticated; Gogoat domestication, however, runs far further back in history than the comparably recent Mareep domestication. Anthropologists believe that Gogoat were the first Pokémon to be domesticated for agricultural purposes (the distinction of the first domesticated species sort belongs to Lillipup). It should be noted that all Gogoat, both wild and domesticated, share similar adaptations that would only benefit them alongside humans; this is because modern wild Gogoat are actually descended from escaped domesticated ones, with the feral Gogoat of the past having gone extinct.","Gogoat are ovids like Ampharos. Like their relatives, they have also been domesticated; Gogoat domestication, however, runs far further back in history than the comparably recent Mareep domestication. Anthropologists believe that Gogoat were the first Pokémon to be domesticated for agricultural purposes (the distinction of the first domesticated species sort belongs to Lillipup). It should be noted that all Gogoat, both wild and domesticated, share similar adaptations that would only benefit them alongside humans; this is because modern wild Gogoat are actually descended from escaped domesticated ones, with the feral Gogoat of the past having gone extinct.","While it is clear that Pangoro are ursines, they actually are a member of their own genus, separate from the likes of Bewear, Ursaring, and Beartic. Additionally, they are no more related to Spinda than any of the other ursines, despite what many people erroneously believe. Trainers have noted that Pancham will only evolve into Pangoro when trained alongside Dark-type Pokémon. Researchers have found that the berserk states that Pangoro enter are in fact a learned behavior; Pancham learn to fight without restraint or inhibition, a trait many Dark-types innately possess. In the wild, Pancham naturally learn this behavior by watching their parents.","While it is clear that Pangoro are ursines, they actually are a member of their own genus, separate from the likes of Bewear, Ursaring, and Beartic. Additionally, they are no more related to Spinda than any of the other ursines, despite what many people erroneously believe. Trainers have noted that Pancham will only evolve into Pangoro when trained alongside Dark-type Pokémon. Researchers have found that the berserk states that Pangoro enter are in fact a learned behavior; Pancham learn to fight without restraint or inhibition, a trait many Dark-types innately possess. In the wild, Pancham naturally learn this behavior by watching their parents.","While other canines, specifically Granbull, Arcanine, and Stoutland, are commonly domesticated, Furfrou are by far the most adapted to life with humans. Like Stoutland, Furfrou’s ancestors were hunting companions for ancient humans. Furfrou, however, were selectively bred for their thick fur and regal appearances. Modern Furfrou are actually descended from individuals bred for protecting Kalos royalty, who enjoyed styling their luxurious fur. Today, these Pokémon are relatively rare in the wild; most feral populations are small and usually near cities, having been founded by stray, escaped Furfrou. ","These felines are relatives of Meowth and Skitty, sharing the bipedal stance of the former. These Pokémon are most well-known for their external psychic organs and their destructive capabilities. Though they are not the only Pokémon with their psychokinetic organs located outside of their bodies (notably, Solosis share this trait as well), they are unable to control how this energy is released. Instead, their ears function as a physical valve to regulate this power. These Pokémon are also notable for their sexual dimorphism and gender roles, with males taking care of young and females hunting for prey.","These felines are relatives of Meowth and Skitty, sharing the bipedal stance of the former. These Pokémon are most well-known for their external psychic organs and their destructive capabilities. Though they are not the only Pokémon with their psychokinetic organs located outside of their bodies (notably, Solosis share this trait as well), they are unable to control how this energy is released. Instead, their ears function as a physical valve to regulate this power. These Pokémon are also notable for their sexual dimorphism and gender roles, with males taking care of young and females hunting for prey.","As Ghost-types that inhabit material bodies (in this case that of blades), phasmologists place these creatures alongside the likes of Palossand and Cofagrigus. However, Aegislash are of far more interest to historians; it is increasingly believed that an Aegislash may have controlled an entire house of Kalosian royalty. Uncovered historical documents have revealed that the royal family passed down an Aegislash from generation to generation as an heirloom Pokémon of sorts, and given what we know about the Pokémon today, it is likely that it orchestrated many important events that occurred during the reign; its exact motives remain unknown, however.","As Ghost-types that inhabit material bodies (in this case that of blades), phasmologists place these creatures alongside the likes of Palossand and Cofagrigus. However, Aegislash are of far more interest to historians; it is increasingly believed that an Aegislash may have controlled an entire house of Kalosian royalty. Uncovered historical documents have revealed that the royal family passed down an Aegislash from generation to generation as an heirloom Pokémon of sorts, and given what we know about the Pokémon today, it is likely that it orchestrated many important events that occurred during the reign; its exact motives remain unknown, however.","As Ghost-types that inhabit material bodies (in this case that of blades), phasmologists place these creatures alongside the likes of Palossand and Cofagrigus. However, Aegislash are of far more interest to historians; it is increasingly believed that an Aegislash may have controlled an entire house of Kalosian royalty. Uncovered historical documents have revealed that the royal family passed down an Aegislash from generation to generation as an heirloom Pokémon of sorts, and given what we know about the Pokémon today, it is likely that it orchestrated many important events that occurred during the reign; its exact motives remain unknown, however.","Aromatisse are relatives of Noctowl, though they are in a separate family. They are specialists when it comes to the sense of smell, which is their primary method of both communication and defense. Sometimes utilized by humans for perfume, these creatures have evolved special organs for isolating odorous compounds from their food; they also have “mixing chambers” where they can combine different substances to synthesize new aromas. These Pokémon actually function as decomposers in their ecosystems, as they will consume carrion for its odor (even if they do not gain much from it nutritionally). ","Aromatisse are relatives of Noctowl, though they are in a separate family. They are specialists when it comes to the sense of smell, which is their primary method of both communication and defense. Sometimes utilized by humans for perfume, these creatures have evolved special organs for isolating odorous compounds from their food; they also have “mixing chambers” where they can combine different substances to synthesize new aromas. These Pokémon actually function as decomposers in their ecosystems, as they will consume carrion for its odor (even if they do not gain much from it nutritionally). ","Slurpuff are actually canines, making them relatives of Furfrou and Arcanine. They are very different in terms of physiology than their cousins, however; for one, they are bipedal, which only some canines are. More importantly, however, they secrete concentrated syrup from their skin that coats their fur and makes them very sticky. This syrup is a product of their sugar-rich diets, as they consume so much of the substance that their bodies much rid them of excess through secretion. It is unknown why they have evolved to favor sugar to such an extreme, but it is likely that their olfactory senses, which are acute even for canines, evolved to help them seek out sweets.","Slurpuff are actually canines, making them relatives of Furfrou and Arcanine. They are very different in terms of physiology than their cousins, however; for one, they are bipedal, which only some canines are. More importantly, however, they secrete concentrated syrup from their skin that coats their fur and makes them very sticky. This syrup is a product of their sugar-rich diets, as they consume so much of the substance that their bodies much rid them of excess through secretion. It is unknown why they have evolved to favor sugar to such an extreme, but it is likely that their olfactory senses, which are acute even for canines, evolved to help them seek out sweets.","Malamar are cephalopods like Octillery, though they belong to a different order. These creatures are infamous for their manipulative powers; unlike Grumpig, who almost exclusively use their abilities to defend themselves, Malamar seem to do so for their own purposes, or even possibly for fun. These Pokémon are also dangerous because of how a skilled trainer can weaponize their abilities to control others; it is thought that this is how Malamar came to infiltrate some criminal organizations, as foolish officials attempted to wield their powers only to be overcome by them themselves.","Malamar are cephalopods like Octillery, though they belong to a different order. These creatures are infamous for their manipulative powers; unlike Grumpig, who almost exclusively use their abilities to defend themselves, Malamar seem to do so for their own purposes, or even possibly for fun. These Pokémon are also dangerous because of how a skilled trainer can weaponize their abilities to control others; it is thought that this is how Malamar came to infiltrate some criminal organizations, as foolish officials attempted to wield their powers only to be overcome by them themselves.","Although they may not look like them physiologically, these Pokémon are actually crustaceans. They are notable for their colonial lifestyle; while some Pokémon like Dodrio may have multiple heads and brains, Barbaracle are actually collections of entirely separate organisms. When they adhere to the same rock, the units will link rudimentary nerves (which are sheathed to protect them from damage) within their rocks so they can communicate with one another. Which individual becomes the head of a Barbaracle seems mostly arbitrary, as it seems to solely depend on where each unit attached itself to the stone relative to the other.","Although they may not look like them physiologically, these Pokémon are actually crustaceans. They are notable for their colonial lifestyle; while some Pokémon like Dodrio may have multiple heads and brains, Barbaracle are actually collections of entirely separate organisms. When they adhere to the same rock, the units will link rudimentary nerves (which are sheathed to protect them from damage) within their rocks so they can communicate with one another. Which individual becomes the head of a Barbaracle seems mostly arbitrary, as it seems to solely depend on where each unit attached itself to the stone relative to the other.","Dragalge are ray-finned fishes who are close relatives of Kingdra. These Pokêmon have evolved elaborate, weed-like appendages that help them blend into the kelp forests where they dwell. Since they are poor swimmers, they utilize this camouflage to help them ambush prey; additionally, their poison aids in incapacitating victims so they cannot swim away. Dragalge are one of the most common culprits behind shipwrecks where they dwell. Researchers believe that this is solely a consequence of their territoriality, as groups of these Pokémon will attack anything larger than themselves that enters their kelp forests.","Dragalge are ray-finned fishes who are close relatives of Kingdra. These Pokêmon have evolved elaborate, weed-like appendages that help them blend into the kelp forests where they dwell. Since they are poor swimmers, they utilize this camouflage to help them ambush prey; additionally, their poison aids in incapacitating victims so they cannot swim away. Dragalge are one of the most common culprits behind shipwrecks where they dwell. Researchers believe that this is solely a consequence of their territoriality, as groups of these Pokémon will attack anything larger than themselves that enters their kelp forests.","These crustaceans are somewhat related to Kingler and Crawdaunt. Though they are morphologically are more similar overall to the latter, they do share the disproportionate claw size of the former, albeit to a much larger extreme. Although Pokémon like Remoraid and Octillery may also specialize in shooting water, these Pokémon are true specialists in this regard. Not only do they use pressurized water to hunt prey and defend themselves, but they also use jets of water to propel themselves through the sea. Engineers are currently studying the mechanism of their launching claws to develop new weapons and methods of underwater propulsion.","These crustaceans are somewhat related to Kingler and Crawdaunt. Though they are morphologically are more similar overall to the latter, they do share the disproportionate claw size of the former, albeit to a much larger extreme. Although Pokémon like Remoraid and Octillery may also specialize in shooting water, these Pokémon are true specialists in this regard. Not only do they use pressurized water to hunt prey and defend themselves, but they also use jets of water to propel themselves through the sea. Engineers are currently studying the mechanism of their launching claws to develop new weapons and methods of underwater propulsion.","These squamatans are relatives of Kecleon and Scrafty. Like the latter, they primarily make their homes in arid deserts. In addition to the standard water conservation and heat dissipation adaptation many desert organisms possess, these creatures have also evolved to take advantage of the abundant sunlight in their habitats. Their light-absorbing black frills can take advantage of the photoelectric effect to provide these Pokémon with electricity. This helps them survive in barren deserts where food may otherwise be scarce. Modern solar panels are designed after Helioptile and Heliolisk frills an work in a similar manner.","These squamatans are relatives of Kecleon and Scrafty. Like the latter, they primarily make their homes in arid deserts. In addition to the standard water conservation and heat dissipation adaptation many desert organisms possess, these creatures have also evolved to take advantage of the abundant sunlight in their habitats. Their light-absorbing black frills can take advantage of the photoelectric effect to provide these Pokémon with electricity. This helps them survive in barren deserts where food may otherwise be scarce. Modern solar panels are designed after Helioptile and Heliolisk frills an work in a similar manner.","Tyrantrum are perhaps one of the most famous Pokémon no longer around in the wild today, though they somewhat live on through their extant relatives, Tyranitar. This popularity has translated into an abundance of research on the species, who are one of the most well-studied of known fossil Pokémon. Tyrantrum sport primitive feathers around their necks that support the connection between modern birds and primitive dinosaurs (a link strengthened by the existence of Archeops). Once thought to be vestigial, their stubby forelimbs were actually used to hold onto struggling prey. Scientists are still unsure as to what exactly caused their extinction, however.","Tyrantrum are perhaps one of the most famous Pokémon no longer around in the wild today, though they somewhat live on through their extant relatives, Tyranitar. This popularity has translated into an abundance of research on the species, who are one of the most well-studied of known fossil Pokémon. Tyrantrum sport primitive feathers around their necks that support the connection between modern birds and primitive dinosaurs (a link strengthened by the existence of Archeops). Once thought to be vestigial, their stubby forelimbs were actually used to hold onto struggling prey. Scientists are still unsure as to what exactly caused their extinction, however.","As sauropodian dinosaurs, Aurorus are extinct relatives of the currently-living Meganium and Tropius. Unlike their temperate and tropical descendants, these creatures thrived on frozen glaciers, an anomaly amongst prehistoric reptiles. They could endure the cold thanks to antifreeze proteins in their blood; this adaptation also allowed them to survive the ice age that wiped out many of their contemporaries (it should be noted that this is a separate ice age than the one where Mamoswine roamed, a common misconception in popular culture). These Pokémon could also create aurora-like lights with ice crystals; it is thought that this was how they communicated.","As sauropodian dinosaurs, Aurorus are extinct relatives of the currently-living Meganium and Tropius. Unlike their temperate and tropical descendants, these creatures thrived on frozen glaciers, an anomaly amongst prehistoric reptiles. They could endure the cold thanks to antifreeze proteins in their blood; this adaptation also allowed them to survive the ice age that wiped out many of their contemporaries (it should be noted that this is a separate ice age than the one where Mamoswine roamed, a common misconception in popular culture). These Pokémon could also create aurora-like lights with ice crystals; it is thought that this was how they communicated.","Eevee are related to vulpines like Ninetales and Zoroark; some scientists even believe that they were even bred from the common ancestor of these Pokémon. Their unstable DNA is thought to have been a byproduct of generations of inbreeding to select traits desirable in a pet. Though all Eeveelutions are adapted to a different environment, they all are exceedingly rare in the wild, and are adapted to life alongside people. It is notable that two of them (Espeon and Umbreon), evolve based on developing trust between themselves and their trainers, while a third (Sylveon), evolves based on creating a strong emotional bond.","Although these Pokémon are not capable of true flight, they are actually still considered true birds of prey like Pidgeot and Talonflame. In fact, they replace Pidgeot in Kalos in its “main” five birds, though it more specifically represents grace rather than beauty. They are famous for their elegant style of fighting, which is both watched and imitated by humans. Notably, Crasher Wake, the Gym Leader of the Pastoria Gym in Sinnoh practices this form of wrestling in his spare time. Their signature technique, Flying Press, is also notable for simultaneously being both a Flying- and a Fighting-type attack.","Like many other rodents with cheek pouches (for instance, Emolga, Plusle, and Minun), Dedenne wield electrical abilities. They also can generate radio waves through their wiry antennae, using this capability to communicate with one another across long distances. Dedenne are also considerably smaller than their relatives. While scientists aren’t quite sure why they evolved their minute stature, they hypothesize that it may have to do with avoiding predators or optimizing reproductive efficiency—these creatures breed often and produce many offspring, so it may be advantageous for them to divert energy away from growth and into reproduction.","Scientists know very little about these mysterious, ancient Pokémon. They are tentatively placed alongside Gigalith in classification because of their gem-like growths and affinity for high-pressure environments. Carbink seem to barely even function as Pokémon most of the time; it is thought that they vast majority of them are likely lying dormant in undisturbed sections of the earth, and individuals that have been found do not seem to eat, drink, or breathe. Their connections with the mythical Diancie also remains unknown, but some believe that these creatures may exist solely to serve this legendary Pokémon.","Though Goodra may not look the part, these odd creatures are actually gastropods. They are relatives of Gastrodon (a connection more easily seen in Goomy and Sliggoo than Goodra). Though Sliggoo may seem shelled like Magcargo, this growth is actually a hump designed to store its coiled intestines. Goodra seem to rather inexplicably possess the Dragon-typing; scientists have been unable to explain this phenomenon. In fact, the mere existence of these Pokémon seems to challenge the notion of how Pokémon types even evolved, as there seem to have been no evolutionary conditions that would have pressured these gastropods to adopt the Dragon-type.","Though Goodra may not look the part, these odd creatures are actually gastropods. They are relatives of Gastrodon (a connection more easily seen in Goomy and Sliggoo than Goodra). Though Sliggoo may seem shelled like Magcargo, this growth is actually a hump designed to store its coiled intestines. Goodra seem to rather inexplicably possess the Dragon-typing; scientists have been unable to explain this phenomenon. In fact, the mere existence of these Pokémon seems to challenge the notion of how Pokémon types even evolved, as there seem to have been no evolutionary conditions that would have pressured these gastropods to adopt the Dragon-type.","Though Goodra may not look the part, these odd creatures are actually gastropods. They are relatives of Gastrodon (a connection more easily seen in Goomy and Sliggoo than Goodra). Though Sliggoo may seem shelled like Magcargo, this growth is actually a hump designed to store its coiled intestines. Goodra seem to rather inexplicably possess the Dragon-typing; scientists have been unable to explain this phenomenon. In fact, the mere existence of these Pokémon seems to challenge the notion of how Pokémon types even evolved, as there seem to have been no evolutionary conditions that would have pressured these gastropods to adopt the Dragon-type.","Klefki are perhaps one of the most perplexing Pokémon to modern science, even when compared to other inorganic species. While other organisms seem to fulfill a specific niche (if they evolved to be that way) or serve a certain purpose (if they were bred or perhaps created to do so), Klefki seem to desire nothing more than to collect keys. While people have put this affinity to use by using them to protect valuables, these Pokémon began stealing keys long before humans began doing this. Some of the wildest theories regarding Klefki suggest that they may in fact be searching for certain keys in particular, such as those that could open interdimensional doorways.","Like how Palossand are believed to be spirits inhabiting piles of sand and Aegislash said to be possessed swords, Trevenant are thought to be the spirits of lost travelers encased in trees. Though feared by rural travelers because of how they are purported to trap people for all of eternity in their woods, these creatures are actually vital to the forests that they inhabit. Trevenant protect trees growing in areas that they likely would not be able to continue surviving in otherwise. While outside conditions may be changing, Trevenant woods remain unchanging, as if stuck in time, thanks to the support of these Pokémon.","Like how Palossand are believed to be spirits inhabiting piles of sand and Aegislash said to be possessed swords, Trevenant are thought to be the spirits of lost travelers encased in trees. Though feared by rural travelers because of how they are purported to trap people for all of eternity in their woods, these creatures are actually vital to the forests that they inhabit. Trevenant protect trees growing in areas that they likely would not be able to continue surviving in otherwise. While outside conditions may be changing, Trevenant woods remain unchanging, as if stuck in time, thanks to the support of these Pokémon.","The classification of these Pokémon has been heavily disputed. Some scientists believe that they should be placed alongside the likes of Trevenant under the assumption that they are also spirits that hide in physical objects. Others argue that they are perhaps entirely organic in origin, as there is no scientific evidence towards the former claim. These Pokémon are also notable for their wide range of sizes. It is believed that these different sizes are better suited for different environments, as they trade speed for durability as they get larger. Thus, small individuals are more fit when competition is heavy, while large ones fare better when defense from foes is necessary.","The classification of these Pokémon has been heavily disputed. Some scientists believe that they should be placed alongside the likes of Trevenant under the assumption that they are also spirits that hide in physical objects. Others argue that they are perhaps entirely organic in origin, as there is no scientific evidence towards the former claim. These Pokémon are also notable for their wide range of sizes. It is believed that these different sizes are better suited for different environments, as they trade speed for durability as they get larger. Thus, small individuals are more fit when competition is heavy, while large ones fare better when defense from foes is necessary.","These icy Pokémon are believed to be very ancient and long-lived; some scientists even believe that some Avalugg alive today have lived through the last ice age. As ice-based Pokémon like Vanilluxe and Cryogonal, these creatures are confined to the coldest parts of the world where temperatures never rise above freezing. Rather oddly for an inorganic species, these Pokémon possess very strong parental instincts and raise their children until evolution. It is thought they they evolved to be this way because the relationship is mutualistic; Bergmite receive transportation and cold air from their parents, while Avalugg gain aerial protection from their offspring.","These icy Pokémon are believed to be very ancient and long-lived; some scientists even believe that some Avalugg alive today have lived through the last ice age. As ice-based Pokémon like Vanilluxe and Cryogonal, these creatures are confined to the coldest parts of the world where temperatures never rise above freezing. Rather oddly for an inorganic species, these Pokémon possess very strong parental instincts and raise their children until evolution. It is thought they they evolved to be this way because the relationship is mutualistic; Bergmite receive transportation and cold air from their parents, while Avalugg gain aerial protection from their offspring.","These Pokémon are chiropterans, much like Woobat and Zubat. Like their relatives, Noivern dwell in caves and utilize echolocation to navigate their dark environments. For reasons scientists have not yet figured out, Noivern seem to have moved their sonic organs to their ears rather than their mouths through evolution. Some researchers hypothesize that the shape of their ears, in addition to improving their hearing capabilities, may also amplifying the volume of the sound waves being produced within them. This would explain how Noivern utilize powerful sound-based moves like Boomburst in battle.","These Pokémon are chiropterans, much like Woobat and Zubat. Like their relatives, Noivern dwell in caves and utilize echolocation to navigate their dark environments. For reasons scientists have not yet figured out, Noivern seem to have moved their sonic organs to their ears rather than their mouths through evolution. Some researchers hypothesize that the shape of their ears, in addition to improving their hearing capabilities, may also amplifying the volume of the sound waves being produced within them. This would explain how Noivern utilize powerful sound-based moves like Boomburst in battle.","","","","","","","Decidueye are in the same family as Noctowl; though they are (nocturnal) birds of prey under the formal definition, they are rarely associated with the grouping in popular culture; this is because the people of Alola, where Rowlet are starter Pokémon, do not hold it to much significance. Much like their relatives, Decidueye are associated with the supernatural. These Pokémon also are Ghost-types, however, while Noctowl are not Psychic-types. This odd typing has remained a mystery to science, especially since both Rowlet and Dartrix are Flying-types; some scientists even believe that this trait may be possessed, but not expressed, by Noctowl.","Decidueye are in the same family as Noctowl; though they are (nocturnal) birds of prey under the formal definition, they are rarely associated with the grouping in popular culture; this is because the people of Alola, where Rowlet are starter Pokémon, do not hold it to much significance. Much like their relatives, Decidueye are associated with the supernatural. These Pokémon also are Ghost-types, however, while Noctowl are not Psychic-types. This odd typing has remained a mystery to science, especially since both Rowlet and Dartrix are Flying-types; some scientists even believe that this trait may be possessed, but not expressed, by Noctowl.","Decidueye are in the same family as Noctowl; though they are (nocturnal) birds of prey under the formal definition, they are rarely associated with the grouping in popular culture; this is because the people of Alola, where Rowlet are starter Pokémon, do not hold it to much significance. Much like their relatives, Decidueye are associated with the supernatural. These Pokémon also are Ghost-types, however, while Noctowl are not Psychic-types. This odd typing has remained a mystery to science, especially since both Rowlet and Dartrix are Flying-types; some scientists even believe that this trait may be possessed, but not expressed, by Noctowl.","Incineroar are big cats like Luxray and Pyroar; they also share their Fire-typing with the latter. However, while Pyroar make their homes in dry savannas, Incineroar prefer humid jungles and grasslands. The placement of the flame sacs of Torracat and Incineroar seems odd from an evolutionary standpoint, as it seems illogical to place such important organs outside of the body (especially in wet rainforests). Scientists believe that this may serve two purposes. The first is that these Pokémon actually take advantage of humidity and airflow to cool their sacs and keep them from overheating; the second is that the sizes of these sacs are gauged in sexual selection.","Incineroar are big cats like Luxray and Pyroar; they also share their Fire-typing with the latter. However, while Pyroar make their homes in dry savannas, Incineroar prefer humid jungles and grasslands. The placement of the flame sacs of Torracat and Incineroar seems odd from an evolutionary standpoint, as it seems illogical to place such important organs outside of the body (especially in wet rainforests). Scientists believe that this may serve two purposes. The first is that these Pokémon actually take advantage of humidity and airflow to cool their sacs and keep them from overheating; the second is that the sizes of these sacs are gauged in sexual selection.","Incineroar are big cats like Luxray and Pyroar; they also share their Fire-typing with the latter. However, while Pyroar make their homes in dry savannas, Incineroar prefer humid jungles and grasslands. The placement of the flame sacs of Torracat and Incineroar seems odd from an evolutionary standpoint, as it seems illogical to place such important organs outside of the body (especially in wet rainforests). Scientists believe that this may serve two purposes. The first is that these Pokémon actually take advantage of humidity and airflow to cool their sacs and keep them from overheating; the second is that the sizes of these sacs are gauged in sexual selection.","These relatives of Samurott are renowned for their grace and vocal prowess. While their relatives defend themselves with shell blades and brute strength, Primarina instead prefer grand performances of beauty and song. Scientists have learned that their signature elastic bubbles are made of water thickened with glycoproteins, which are the same molecules as the ones that give Cubchoo snot its signature viscosity. Explosive ones are filled with a mixture of oxygen and a number of other gases, primarily hydrogen; it is thought that the strengthened bubbles evolved to serve as makeshift “platforms” first, and the potential for volatility came about second.","These relatives of Samurott are renowned for their grace and vocal prowess. While their relatives defend themselves with shell blades and brute strength, Primarina instead prefer grand performances of beauty and song. Scientists have learned that their signature elastic bubbles are made of water thickened with glycoproteins, which are the same molecules as the ones that give Cubchoo snot its signature viscosity. Explosive ones are filled with a mixture of oxygen and a number of other gases, primarily hydrogen; it is thought that the strengthened bubbles evolved to serve as makeshift “platforms” first, and the potential for volatility came about second.","These relatives of Samurott are renowned for their grace and vocal prowess. While their relatives defend themselves with shell blades and brute strength, Primarina instead prefer grand performances of beauty and song. Scientists have learned that their signature elastic bubbles are made of water thickened with glycoproteins, which are the same molecules as the ones that give Cubchoo snot its signature viscosity. Explosive ones are filled with a mixture of oxygen and a number of other gases, primarily hydrogen; it is thought that the strengthened bubbles evolved to serve as makeshift “platforms” first, and the potential for volatility came about second.","Though Toucannon are somewhat related to Xatu, they belong to an entirely different order of avians, of which they are the sole member. Members of this line—particularly Trumbeak—are infamous for their loud calls, which make them a nuisance in many tropical communities. However, these Pokémon are a vital part of rainforest ecosystems as key seed dispersers. As they collect, eat, and fire seeds, they help spread them long distances away from where they were dropped. In this way, Toucannon and their pre-evolutions help new plants grow away from areas of high competition and keep their habitats well-foliaged.","Though Toucannon are somewhat related to Xatu, they belong to an entirely different order of avians, of which they are the sole member. Members of this line—particularly Trumbeak—are infamous for their loud calls, which make them a nuisance in many tropical communities. However, these Pokémon are a vital part of rainforest ecosystems as key seed dispersers. As they collect, eat, and fire seeds, they help spread them long distances away from where they were dropped. In this way, Toucannon and their pre-evolutions help new plants grow away from areas of high competition and keep their habitats well-foliaged.","Though Toucannon are somewhat related to Xatu, they belong to an entirely different order of avians, of which they are the sole member. Members of this line—particularly Trumbeak—are infamous for their loud calls, which make them a nuisance in many tropical communities. However, these Pokémon are a vital part of rainforest ecosystems as key seed dispersers. As they collect, eat, and fire seeds, they help spread them long distances away from where they were dropped. In this way, Toucannon and their pre-evolutions help new plants grow away from areas of high competition and keep their habitats well-foliaged.","Gumshoos are very close relatives of Zangoose. They are by far most infamous in the Alola region, where they are not even native. In fact, their status as an invasive species is what makes them so well known; the case of Yungoos and Rattata is the classic example of biological control gone wrong in ecology classrooms. The primary issue with their introduction was that Yungoos were generalists; they easily preyed upon native species if Rattata were not readily available. Thus, when Rattata moved into cities and became nocturnal to avoid them, there was no evolutionary pressure for Yungoos to do the same—they could simply find food elsewhere.","Gumshoos are very close relatives of Zangoose. They are by far most infamous in the Alola region, where they are not even native. In fact, their status as an invasive species is what makes them so well known; the case of Yungoos and Rattata is the classic example of biological control gone wrong in ecology classrooms. The primary issue with their introduction was that Yungoos were generalists; they easily preyed upon native species if Rattata were not readily available. Thus, when Rattata moved into cities and became nocturnal to avoid them, there was no evolutionary pressure for Yungoos to do the same—they could simply find food elsewhere.","Vikavolt are in the same genus as Pinsir. Their most notable adaptation is obviously their electrogenetic capabilities; while this adaptation has been noted before in arthropods with Galvantula, scientists are nearly certain that these two evolutionary traits arose independently from one another. Galvantula seem to have evolved electrified webs to stun and hunt prey, while Vikavolt appear to have developed it to fend themselves from Flying-types; though they do use electricity to hunt, studies show that their strong jaws serve them well enough on their own; there must be another benefit of electricity to offset energy cost, or non-electrogenetic Vikavolt would be more fit. Because they can use Charjabug to augment their own abilities, both male and female Vikavolt will care for their young until adulthood, unlike many other insectile Pokémon.","Vikavolt are in the same genus as Pinsir. Their most notable adaptation is obviously their electrogenetic capabilities; while this adaptation has been noted before in arthropods with Galvantula, scientists are nearly certain that these two evolutionary traits arose independently from one another. Galvantula seem to have evolved electrified webs to stun and hunt prey, while Vikavolt appear to have developed it to fend themselves from Flying-types; though they do use electricity to hunt, studies show that their strong jaws serve them well enough on their own; there must be another benefit of electricity to offset energy cost, or non-electrogenetic Vikavolt would be more fit. Because they can use Charjabug to augment their own abilities, both male and female Vikavolt will care for their young until adulthood, unlike many other insectile Pokémon.","Vikavolt are in the same genus as Pinsir. Their most notable adaptation is obviously their electrogenetic capabilities; while this adaptation has been noted before in arthropods with Galvantula, scientists are nearly certain that these two evolutionary traits arose independently from one another. Galvantula seem to have evolved electrified webs to stun and hunt prey, while Vikavolt appear to have developed it to fend themselves from Flying-types; though they do use electricity to hunt, studies show that their strong jaws serve them well enough on their own; there must be another benefit of electricity to offset energy cost, or non-electrogenetic Vikavolt would be more fit. Because they can use Charjabug to augment their own abilities, both male and female Vikavolt will care for their young until adulthood, unlike many other insectile Pokémon.","Both Crabrawler and Crabominable are very interesting Pokémon in their own rights. Terrestrial Crabominable are relatives of Crustle, with whom they share an intolerance of water. It is thought that Crabrawler initially evolved their climbing instincts to avoid terrestrial predators. Very few Crabrawler ascend high enough to evolve into Crabominable, however. Furthermore, it has recently been discovered that Crabominable do not reproduce in the wild, and that all offspring are produced by Crabrawler. Scientists believe that Crabominable are an evolutionary quirk resulting from dormant genes being expressed rather than a standard part of a Crabrawler’s life cycle.","Both Crabrawler and Crabominable are very interesting Pokémon in their own rights. Terrestrial Crabominable are relatives of Crustle, with whom they share an intolerance of water. It is thought that Crabrawler initially evolved their climbing instincts to avoid terrestrial predators. Very few Crabrawler ascend high enough to evolve into Crabominable, however. Furthermore, it has recently been discovered that Crabominable do not reproduce in the wild, and that all offspring are produced by Crabrawler. Scientists believe that Crabominable are an evolutionary quirk resulting from dormant genes being expressed rather than a standard part of a Crabrawler’s life cycle.","The mystery of Oricorio Styles has baffled scientists for decades. Initially, it was thought that the Pokémon developed different typings, appearances, and behaviors to adapt to the different island environments. The theory that distinct dances evolved according to mate selection and geographical isolation was particularly promising. When it was discovered that Oricorio could change forms based on flower nectar, however, these hypotheses were quickly disproven. Experiments show that Oricorio only react to the nectar of specific flower species native to Alola; researchers are currently investigating the possibility of coevolution between Oricorio and these flowers.","Ribombee belong to their own order of insects; though many mistakenly believe that they are relatives of Beedrill and Vespiquen, this is not actually the case. Ribombee are famous for their Pollen Puffs, which can possess either harmful or healing properties depending on what they contain. These Puffs are a popular treat in many regions, with specialty ones often being marketed as supplements for their nutrition or health properties. Cutiefly are also notable for being able to sense the auras of living things; Ribombee seem to possess this trait to a lesser degree, relying more on eyesight to navigate. They do seem to be sensitive to the feelings of others, however.","Ribombee belong to their own order of insects; though many mistakenly believe that they are relatives of Beedrill and Vespiquen, this is not actually the case. Ribombee are famous for their Pollen Puffs, which can possess either harmful or healing properties depending on what they contain. These Puffs are a popular treat in many regions, with specialty ones often being marketed as supplements for their nutrition or health properties. Cutiefly are also notable for being able to sense the auras of living things; Ribombee seem to possess this trait to a lesser degree, relying more on eyesight to navigate. They do seem to be sensitive to the feelings of others, however.","As canines, Lycanroc are close relatives of Manectric, Arcanine, and Stoutland. Like some of their relatives, these Pokémon have been raised alongside humans for centuries. Exactly how this practice came to be is a mystery to anthropologists, however. Unlike Growlithe or Lillipup, both Rockruff and Lycanroc are solitary creatures rather than pack hunters; they seem ill-fitting for domestication in this regard. Indeed, researchers believe that Rockruff domestication likely originated in barren deserts, where they were the most acceptable option; their “rebellious” phases, in hindsight, would have spelled the end of domestication practices if easier choices were available.","As canines, Lycanroc are close relatives of Manectric, Arcanine, and Stoutland. Like some of their relatives, these Pokémon have been raised alongside humans for centuries. Exactly how this practice came to be is a mystery to anthropologists, however. Unlike Growlithe or Lillipup, both Rockruff and Lycanroc are solitary creatures rather than pack hunters; they seem ill-fitting for domestication in this regard. Indeed, researchers believe that Rockruff domestication likely originated in barren deserts, where they were the most acceptable option; their “rebellious” phases, in hindsight, would have spelled the end of domestication practices if easier choices were available.","Tiny Wishiwashi serve as prey for many marine Pokémon. Though prey species often take solace in the idea of “safety in numbers,” Wishiwashi take this to the extreme with their School Forms. The level of coordination involved in such formations is the subject of intense research. Indeed, the hormones and receptors required to remain in perfect sync are so complex that they do not fully develop for some time after Wishiwashi are born, explaining why young Wishiwashi are unable to school. Some predators seem to have evolved to deal with these schools; ambush tactics can catch lone Wishiwashi before they can signal to their allies.","These relatives of Starmie have long been infamous as a great danger to Corsola reefs. It should be noted, however, that Mareanie and Toxapex actually play an important role in reef ecosystems as long as their populations are kept in check; as one of the only consumers of Corsola horns, these Pokémon maintain habitat heterogeneity by creating different densities of horns as they feed and preventing the horns from building up to excessive levels. It is only during population booms that they pose a grave danger to reef stability; scientists believe that warming sea temperatures, which are favorable for Mareanie, may lead to an unprecedented boom in their numbers.","These relatives of Starmie have long been infamous as a great danger to Corsola reefs. It should be noted, however, that Mareanie and Toxapex actually play an important role in reef ecosystems as long as their populations are kept in check; as one of the only consumers of Corsola horns, these Pokémon maintain habitat heterogeneity by creating different densities of horns as they feed and preventing the horns from building up to excessive levels. It is only during population booms that they pose a grave danger to reef stability; scientists believe that warming sea temperatures, which are favorable for Mareanie, may lead to an unprecedented boom in their numbers.","Mudsdale are very close relatives of Rapidash and Zebstrika, being in the same genus as both of them. Like Rapidash (and unlike Zebstrika), they have been domesticated for their stamina and ability to carry heavy loads for long periods of time. However, few Mudsdale still remain in the wild because of past overhunting. Though some organizations have considered reintroducing these Pokémon into their old natural habitats, such a practice would have to be closely monitored in order to ensure no unintended ecological ramifications would follow. For now, Mudsdale still roam free in Alola, where the species as a whole is protected under law.","Mudsdale are very close relatives of Rapidash and Zebstrika, being in the same genus as both of them. Like Rapidash (and unlike Zebstrika), they have been domesticated for their stamina and ability to carry heavy loads for long periods of time. However, few Mudsdale still remain in the wild because of past overhunting. Though some organizations have considered reintroducing these Pokémon into their old natural habitats, such a practice would have to be closely monitored in order to ensure no unintended ecological ramifications would follow. For now, Mudsdale still roam free in Alola, where the species as a whole is protected under law.","Surprisingly for an arachnid, Araquanid are actually primarily aquatic. Though they share a common ancestor with Ariados (and more distantly, Galvantula), they are believed to have diverged quite a long time ago to adapt to life underwater, only recently returning partially to land. Their bubbles are reinforced with some of the same proteins found in Ariados silk, improving their stability. Recently, scientists have discovered that their bubbles actually passively facilitate the diffusion of oxygen into and carbon dioxide out of them from air. However, the process still favors the loss of oxygen overall, so these Pokémon must replenish their supplies periodically.","Surprisingly for an arachnid, Araquanid are actually primarily aquatic. Though they share a common ancestor with Ariados (and more distantly, Galvantula), they are believed to have diverged quite a long time ago to adapt to life underwater, only recently returning partially to land. Their bubbles are reinforced with some of the same proteins found in Ariados silk, improving their stability. Recently, scientists have discovered that their bubbles actually passively facilitate the diffusion of oxygen into and carbon dioxide out of them from air. However, the process still favors the loss of oxygen overall, so these Pokémon must replenish their supplies periodically.","Although are somewhat insectoid in appearance, these Pokémon are much more plantlike in nature; one could easily be forgiven for such an assumption, however, as these creatures were believed to be relatives of Scizor until only a few centuries ago. Unlike Vileplume or Victreebel, Lurantis are capable of photosynthesis, making it somewhat of a mystery why they would have evolved to hunt for sustenance. Scientists believe that they became predators due to a lack of consistent sunlight on the forest floor where they dwell. Indeed, as ambush predators that remain still for long periods of time, Lurantis often go for days without enough light to photosynthesize.","Although are somewhat insectoid in appearance, these Pokémon are much more plantlike in nature; one could easily be forgiven for such an assumption, however, as these creatures were believed to be relatives of Scizor until only a few centuries ago. Unlike Vileplume or Victreebel, Lurantis are capable of photosynthesis, making it somewhat of a mystery why they would have evolved to hunt for sustenance. Scientists believe that they became predators due to a lack of consistent sunlight on the forest floor where they dwell. Indeed, as ambush predators that remain still for long periods of time, Lurantis often go for days without enough light to photosynthesize.","Shiinotic are in the same order as Parasect (or, at least, the fungi controlling them); indeed, they often compete for choice territory with their relatives, covering their habitats with a thick layer of spores. These Pokémon are shrouded in folklore, some of which science has had an easier time explaining than others. While the use of pulsating spore to lure prey and interconnecting mycelium networks to communicate have both been well-studied, the behavior of Shiinotic when not hunting is poorly studied. This is largely because of how treacherous they are in their natural environments; still, these Pokémon have an uncanny, almost supernatural ability to remain hidden when they do not want to be found.","Shiinotic are in the same order as Parasect (or, at least, the fungi controlling them); indeed, they often compete for choice territory with their relatives, covering their habitats with a thick layer of spores. These Pokémon are shrouded in folklore, some of which science has had an easier time explaining than others. While the use of pulsating spore to lure prey and interconnecting mycelium networks to communicate have both been well-studied, the behavior of Shiinotic when not hunting is poorly studied. This is largely because of how treacherous they are in their natural environments; still, these Pokémon have an uncanny, almost supernatural ability to remain hidden when they do not want to be found.","Though these Pokémon seem to be reptilian in nature, they are actually amphibians; specifically, they are caudatans like Quagsire. They seem to have evolved may reptile-like features, however; Salazzle can stray extremely far away from water, unlike most another amphibians, for instance. This is because their combustion actually generates water vapor as a byproduct, which they can then use to keep themselves hydrated. While this is not very efficient, it is enough to tide them over until rainfall during dry spells. If water is very scarce, Salazzle will send Salandit in all different directions to find a source of it.","Though these Pokémon seem to be reptilian in nature, they are actually amphibians; specifically, they are caudatans like Quagsire. They seem to have evolved may reptile-like features, however; Salazzle can stray extremely far away from water, unlike most another amphibians, for instance. This is because their combustion actually generates water vapor as a byproduct, which they can then use to keep themselves hydrated. While this is not very efficient, it is enough to tide them over until rainfall during dry spells. If water is very scarce, Salazzle will send Salandit in all different directions to find a source of it.","Bewear belong to the same genus as Ursaring and Bewear, a relationship made obvious by their similar appearances. Interestingly, however, though Bewear and Ursaring share similar habitat conditions (albeit Bewear are more tolerant of tropical environments), they are almost never found in overlapping ranges. Since their niches are so similar, competition likely keeps them from coexisting. This does raise the question of how they evolved to be so distinct in the first place, however. Researchers currently believe that Bewear originated from the islands of Alola, where vast geographical separation would have kept the two species distinct.","Bewear belong to the same genus as Ursaring and Bewear, a relationship made obvious by their similar appearances. Interestingly, however, though Bewear and Ursaring share similar habitat conditions (albeit Bewear are more tolerant of tropical environments), they are almost never found in overlapping ranges. Since their niches are so similar, competition likely keeps them from coexisting. This does raise the question of how they evolved to be so distinct in the first place, however. Researchers currently believe that Bewear originated from the islands of Alola, where vast geographical separation would have kept the two species distinct.","Though it may not seem like it, Tsareena are actually the closest living relatives of Vileplume and Bellossom. Tsareena have a somewhat odd community structure in the wild; most Bounsweet never evolve into Steenee, as they serve as prey to many jungle predators. Similarly, most Steenee never evolve into Tsareena. Furthermore, Tsareena do not seem to reproduce in the wild, so wild Bounsweet exclusively arise from Steenee. It appears that Tsareena serve to protect offspring that are not their own, while Steenee carry out most other tasks. When a Tsareena dies or leaves, the Steenee “appoint” a new Tsareena by giving their blessing for one of their own to evolve. ","Though it may not seem like it, Tsareena are actually the closest living relatives of Vileplume and Bellossom. Tsareena have a somewhat odd community structure in the wild; most Bounsweet never evolve into Steenee, as they serve as prey to many jungle predators. Similarly, most Steenee never evolve into Tsareena. Furthermore, Tsareena do not seem to reproduce in the wild, so wild Bounsweet exclusively arise from Steenee. It appears that Tsareena serve to protect offspring that are not their own, while Steenee carry out most other tasks. When a Tsareena dies or leaves, the Steenee “appoint” a new Tsareena by giving their blessing for one of their own to evolve. ","Though it may not seem like it, Tsareena are actually the closest living relatives of Vileplume and Bellossom. Tsareena have a somewhat odd community structure in the wild; most Bounsweet never evolve into Steenee, as they serve as prey to many jungle predators. Similarly, most Steenee never evolve into Tsareena. Furthermore, Tsareena do not seem to reproduce in the wild, so wild Bounsweet exclusively arise from Steenee. It appears that Tsareena serve to protect offspring that are not their own, while Steenee carry out most other tasks. When a Tsareena dies or leaves, the Steenee “appoint” a new Tsareena by giving their blessing for one of their own to evolve. ","These Pokémon have been an evolutionary mystery up until recent times. Luckily, thanks to their presence in hospitals, they have become increasingly easy to study. Shockingly, Comfey may be the only known Pokémon in the plantoid kingdom that are not Grass-types. This disproves a long-standing hypothesis that they were relatives of Florges, fellow Fairy-types associated with flowers. While the timescale and mechanisms by which this evolution occurred is unknown, DNA analysis shows far more similarities with Lilligant than Florges. To compound this, Comfey possess (admittedly nonfunctional) chloroplasts like most Grass-types, which Florges do not.","Oranguru have sparked debate in the practice of Pokémon training itself. These great apes are close relatives of Darmanitan. However, their great intelligence and dexterity with tools make them seem far more humanlike in nature; the fact that they can reportedly wield Poké Balls and other human implements further cements this. Moderate anti-training advocates argue that Oranguru are too intellectual to be confined by trainers, while those in favor point to Pokémon like Alakazam and Slowking as precedents. Extreme training abolitionists, of course, call upon Oranguru as an example that Pokémon as a whole should not be trained at all.","Passimian are relatives of Primeape and Ambipom. Like the latter, they are a social species that work together in the wild. Passimian have a very sophisticated social structure, however, that in fact is one of the most advanced ones known to science. Also notable is their use of tools—specifically, they use Berries both as weapons and as a defense (most obviously in their use of their hard rinds as helmets). While many primates utilize tools to some extent, they are rarely as integral to their lifestyles as they are to that of Passimian. This is even more significant considering that Passimian are more primitive, evolutionarily speaking, than the likes of intelligent Oranguru.","These Pokémon are actually crustaceans, though they are more closely related to Pokémon like Clawitzer than to Barbaracle. Though they are often ridiculed for their cowardliness in popular culture, their skittish behavior actually seems to be a highly effective survival tactic. Wimpod are nearly defenseless other than their irritating poisonous fluids and hard exoskeletons, yet no known Pokémon prey on them with regularity. Since they can eat nearly anything, these creatures have no need to risk staying out in the open for resources, as they can always find them elsewhere. Thus, fleeing at the first sign of danger keeps them safe with little opportunity cost.","These Pokémon are actually crustaceans, though they are more closely related to Pokémon like Clawitzer than to Barbaracle. Though they are often ridiculed for their cowardliness in popular culture, their skittish behavior actually seems to be a highly effective survival tactic. Wimpod are nearly defenseless other than their irritating poisonous fluids and hard exoskeletons, yet no known Pokémon prey on them with regularity. Since they can eat nearly anything, these creatures have no need to risk staying out in the open for resources, as they can always find them elsewhere. Thus, fleeing at the first sign of danger keeps them safe with little opportunity cost.","Palossand are classified alongside Dhelmise and Trevenant. While evolutionary relationships within this group are murky, if existent at all, scientists have noted close similarities between how Palossand and Trevenant reproduce. Specifically, the adult forms of these creatures capture hapless victims in their respective habitats to somehow create new members of the species. Since scientists do not know how other members of the group reproduce as of yet, it is unknown how widespread this mechanism is amongst other spectral species. Research is currently being aimed at Aegislash reproduction to illuminate this, as Kalosian myths hint they may reproduce similarly.","Palossand are classified alongside Dhelmise and Trevenant. While evolutionary relationships within this group are murky, if existent at all, scientists have noted close similarities between how Palossand and Trevenant reproduce. Specifically, the adult forms of these creatures capture hapless victims in their respective habitats to somehow create new members of the species. Since scientists do not know how other members of the group reproduce as of yet, it is unknown how widespread this mechanism is amongst other spectral species. Research is currently being aimed at Aegislash reproduction to illuminate this, as Kalosian myths hint they may reproduce similarly.","Surprisingly, Pyukumuku are echinoderms like Starmie. They are known for their self-destructive habit of sticking firmly on land until they starve. This behavior has historically perplexed scientists, but a promising hypothesis suggests that humans are directly responsible. Pyukumuku are naturally immobile, as sea currents help bring new detritus without the need to move. On land, such behavior should be deleterious. Pyukumuku in tourist destinations, though, can move onto beaches where waste is abundant and then be tossed back into the sea without having to expend energy. This is supported by the fact that Pyukumuku in remote areas rarely beach themselves.","The mere consideration of Silvally as Pokémon was heavily contested; their artificial origins and the ban on their creations caused many to push to ignore them as “aberrations;” once the three living individuals passed, these creatures would effectively no longer exist. Alolan Professors Kukui and Burnet as well as Aether Foundation president and Silvally-owner Gladion led the charge for their recognition. They cited other synthetic Pokémon like Porygon and Genesect as well as fossil Pokémon that have already gone extinct as precedents; they succeeded, though some believe a covert deal regarding Alola’s new League may have been struck to cement this.","The mere consideration of Silvally as Pokémon was heavily contested; their artificial origins and the ban on their creations caused many to push to ignore them as “aberrations;” once the three living individuals passed, these creatures would effectively no longer exist. Alolan Professors Kukui and Burnet as well as Aether Foundation president and Silvally-owner Gladion led the charge for their recognition. They cited other synthetic Pokémon like Porygon and Genesect as well as fossil Pokémon that have already gone extinct as precedents; they succeeded, though some believe a covert deal regarding Alola’s new League may have been struck to cement this.","Researchers are unsure about Minior’s origins. Though they are often thought to be related to Lunatone and Solrock, their Flying-typings and appearance in areas where these species are not found seem to disprove this (Lunatone and Solrock are always found in the same regions, albeit not always at the same time). In the absence of evidence, they are currently classified alongside other mineral-based, terrestrial species. Their life cycles are also very mysterious; Minior inevitably die when they eventually crash to earth, having become too heavy from the dust they must eat to survive. Some point to this “death switch” as evidence they cannot have evolved naturally.","Komala have been intensely researched for their bizarre states of constant sleep. Brain wave analyses show that these Pokémon are at least somewhat responsive to stimuli, though their reception seems quite dull. Exactly how Komala perceive the world is a mystery; some believe that they hazily drift through life from birth to death, only barely conscious enough to eat and reproduce. Others are more optimistic, believing that Komala dream so vividly that they can practically “see” the world in their fantasies. Dream Mist is blurry when used to show their dreams; whether this is how they see the world or simply how we perceive their “dreams” is unknown.","These odd-looking Pokémon are relatives of Torkoal, Torterra, and Blastoise, but they are more distantly related than the three are to one another. They do share more than a few similarities with Torkoal, however; both are slow, volcano-dwelling chelonians that consume inorganic materials in order to facilitate their defenses. They seem to have evolved these adaptations separately from one another, however, as these similarities are superficial rather than biological. Most significantly, Torkoal consume coal as their sole source of energy, while Turtonator consume sulfur as a way to hunt prey; they do not burn the material for fuel like Torkoal.","With their electrical pouches and small stature, it would seem that Togedemaru are close cousins with the likes of Plusle, Minun, and Dedenne. These Pokémon are actually very close relatives of Chesnaught, however, being in the same genus. They are not even in the same order as “true” electric rodents. DNA analysis of the electric rodents, Togedemaru, and their close relatives reveal that Togedemaru evolved their electrical capabilities earlier than the common ancestor of the modern electric rodents. Scientists believe that geographic isolation may have kept the trait in Alola with Togedemaru, explaining why it was unseen elsewhere until some time later.","Mimikyu are a very peculiar species of Pokémon, as their existence and behavior seems to tie them very closely with humans. Their Pikachu disguises appear to be a recent innovation, as such merchandise only became popular around 20 years ago. It is unknown how these Pokémon behaved before this time, if they even existed at all. Some believe that they may have disguised themselves differently to appeal to people, but were not recognized as Pokémon at the time. Similarly, some scientists hypothesize that some Mimikyu may one day change their disguises to better fit shifting trends.","These relatives of Alomomola possess many evolutionary tactics that, while individually effective, seem to overlap excessively or interfere with one another. For instance, their bright coloration may be an effective warning of danger, but the sound of their grinding serves the purpose just as well. Vibrant colors also seem superfluous on a species that is almost entirely buried in sand. Scientists believe that their colorations may have to do with mate selection because of this. Their sharp teeth may seem odd at first as well, as they can already keep predators at bay with their psychokinesis. They make more sense when one considers their shellfish prey, however.","Drampa are wingless draconians, making them relatives of Haxorus and Kommo-o. Unusually for this group of Pokémon, Drampa are famously benevolent and docile; they are herbivorous and thrive alongside humans, further contrasting the likes of Hydreigon or Druddigon. Drampa do possess some characteristically draconian traits, however. They seclude themselves high up in the mountains for some parts of the day and enter blind fits of rage when angered. Some scientists believe that their friendliness and herbivory may be related; farmers were much more likely to let peaceful Drampa descend into their Berry fields than aggressive ones.","Dhelmise are very mysterious Pokémon that we know little about. For a long time, they were thought to be possessed anchors; we now know that whatever “life” these creatures possess resides in the kelp, as kelpless individuals are just as inanimate as real anchors. Though trees and seaweed aren’t even in the same family, Dhelmise are currently grouped with Trevenant in that both are thought to be living or once-living things possessed by spirits. It is easy to see why Dhelmise bind themselves to anchors, however; floating, limp kelp would likely be easy food for many oceanic species, possessed or not.","Kommo-o are wingless draconians like Drampa and Haxorus. Their bipedal stances and tough armor suggest a closer relationship with the latter. While Haxorus tend to dwell near rivers and other sources of flowing water, however, Kommo-o prefer dry, barren habitats. Their weaponized scales are a very interesting adaptation; scientists believe that they may have initially developed to protect these Pokémon from harsh environmental conditions before expanding to fill other roles. Sexual selection also likely played a part in their evolution, as mates seem to assess one another upon scale quality and sturdiness.","Kommo-o are wingless draconians like Drampa and Haxorus. Their bipedal stances and tough armor suggest a closer relationship with the latter. While Haxorus tend to dwell near rivers and other sources of flowing water, however, Kommo-o prefer dry, barren habitats. Their weaponized scales are a very interesting adaptation; scientists believe that they may have initially developed to protect these Pokémon from harsh environmental conditions before expanding to fill other roles. Sexual selection also likely played a part in their evolution, as mates seem to assess one another upon scale quality and sturdiness.","Kommo-o are wingless draconians like Drampa and Haxorus. Their bipedal stances and tough armor suggest a closer relationship with the latter. While Haxorus tend to dwell near rivers and other sources of flowing water, however, Kommo-o prefer dry, barren habitats. Their weaponized scales are a very interesting adaptation; scientists believe that they may have initially developed to protect these Pokémon from harsh environmental conditions before expanding to fill other roles. Sexual selection also likely played a part in their evolution, as mates seem to assess one another upon scale quality and sturdiness.","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","Rillaboom are most closely related to Electivire. As great apes, they are noted for their high intelligence. While these Pokémon are certainly bright in many respects, nowhere is this more clear than when it comes to musical talent. Rillaboom seem to display a deep understanding of the physical property of sound waves, knowing how to modulate pitch and volume by manipulating their technique and equipment. While many Pokémon that rely on sound can also do this, what makes Rillaboom unique is their ability to extend this knowledge to foreign instruments. Though their physiology makes it difficult for them to play such instruments, they have demonstrated an understanding of how string and woodwind instruments work as well, connecting the structure of the devices to their functions in experiments.","Rillaboom are most closely related to Electivire. As great apes, they are noted for their high intelligence. While these Pokémon are certainly bright in many respects, nowhere is this more clear than when it comes to musical talent. Rillaboom seem to display a deep understanding of the physical property of sound waves, knowing how to modulate pitch and volume by manipulating their technique and equipment. While many Pokémon that rely on sound can also do this, what makes Rillaboom unique is their ability to extend this knowledge to foreign instruments. Though their physiology makes it difficult for them to play such instruments, they have demonstrated an understanding of how string and woodwind instruments work as well, connecting the structure of the devices to their functions in experiments.","Rillaboom are most closely related to Electivire. As great apes, they are noted for their high intelligence. While these Pokémon are certainly bright in many respects, nowhere is this more clear than when it comes to musical talent. Rillaboom seem to display a deep understanding of the physical property of sound waves, knowing how to modulate pitch and volume by manipulating their technique and equipment. While many Pokémon that rely on sound can also do this, what makes Rillaboom unique is their ability to extend this knowledge to foreign instruments. Though their physiology makes it difficult for them to play such instruments, they have demonstrated an understanding of how string and woodwind instruments work as well, connecting the structure of the devices to their functions in experiments.","Cinderace are close relatives of Diggersby and Lopunny. However, while their relatives have highly developed and powerful ears, Cinderace instead can wield Fire-type attacks and deliver powerful kicks. This latter trait is something they do share with Lopunny, and the evolutionary trajectory between strong legs for jumping and kicking (as Lopunny primarily use them for) and strong legs for attacking with flaming stones is not a long stretch.The kicks Cinderace perform in combat are thought to be the inspiration behind the sport of football (soccer in Unova), quite popular in Kalos and Galar today.","Cinderace are close relatives of Diggersby and Lopunny. However, while their relatives have highly developed and powerful ears, Cinderace instead can wield Fire-type attacks and deliver powerful kicks. This latter trait is something they do share with Lopunny, and the evolutionary trajectory between strong legs for jumping and kicking (as Lopunny primarily use them for) and strong legs for attacking with flaming stones is not a long stretch.The kicks Cinderace perform in combat are thought to be the inspiration behind the sport of football (soccer in Unova), quite popular in Kalos and Galar today.","Cinderace are close relatives of Diggersby and Lopunny. However, while their relatives have highly developed and powerful ears, Cinderace instead can wield Fire-type attacks and deliver powerful kicks. This latter trait is something they do share with Lopunny, and the evolutionary trajectory between strong legs for jumping and kicking (as Lopunny primarily use them for) and strong legs for attacking with flaming stones is not a long stretch.The kicks Cinderace perform in combat are thought to be the inspiration behind the sport of football (soccer in Unova), quite popular in Kalos and Galar today.","Inteleon are in the same genus as Kecleon, making them semiaquatic squamatans rather than the amphibians they are commonly mistaken to be. The family resemblance is larger than one may think it is at a first glance; both Kecleon and Sobble can effectively become invisible by changing their skin patterns, though Sobble can only do so in contact with water. This skill in deception continues in later evolutions, though it manifests in different ways. Scientists believe that Sobble take advantage of how water diffracts light in order to cloak themselves much more efficiently than Kecleon. As they are almost always near water anyways in the wild, the reduced energy cost of doing so was worth the limiting drawback from an evolutionary standpoint.","Inteleon are in the same genus as Kecleon, making them semiaquatic squamatans rather than the amphibians they are commonly mistaken to be. The family resemblance is larger than one may think it is at a first glance; both Kecleon and Sobble can effectively become invisible by changing their skin patterns, though Sobble can only do so in contact with water. This skill in deception continues in later evolutions, though it manifests in different ways. Scientists believe that Sobble take advantage of how water diffracts light in order to cloak themselves much more efficiently than Kecleon. As they are almost always near water anyways in the wild, the reduced energy cost of doing so was worth the limiting drawback from an evolutionary standpoint.","Inteleon are in the same genus as Kecleon, making them semiaquatic squamatans rather than the amphibians they are commonly mistaken to be. The family resemblance is larger than one may think it is at a first glance; both Kecleon and Sobble can effectively become invisible by changing their skin patterns, though Sobble can only do so in contact with water. This skill in deception continues in later evolutions, though it manifests in different ways. Scientists believe that Sobble take advantage of how water diffracts light in order to cloak themselves much more efficiently than Kecleon. As they are almost always near water anyways in the wild, the reduced energy cost of doing so was worth the limiting drawback from an evolutionary standpoint.","These Pokémon are relatives of Emolga and Pachirisu. They are most famous for their voracious appetites and spacious cheeks. The latter is a trait scientists believe are a simpler variant of the electric sacs their relatives possess. Morpeko, a more (but only slightly so) distant relative, seems to maintain both elastic cheeks as well as electric sacs. Scientists are still unsure whether Greedent, then, represent more primitive relatives to all above Pokémon who have not yet developed electrogenesis, or if they have lost their electrical capabilities as they evolved over time. Preliminary genetic evidence seems to suggest the former, though the results are far from clear.","These Pokémon are relatives of Emolga and Pachirisu. They are most famous for their voracious appetites and spacious cheeks. The latter is a trait scientists believe are a simpler variant of the electric sacs their relatives possess. Morpeko, a more (but only slightly so) distant relative, seems to maintain both elastic cheeks as well as electric sacs. Scientists are still unsure whether Greedent, then, represent more primitive relatives to all above Pokémon who have not yet developed electrogenesis, or if they have lost their electrical capabilities as they evolved over time. Preliminary genetic evidence seems to suggest the former, though the results are far from clear.","It may come as a surprise to some that Corviknight are in fact passerines rather than true birds of prey like Talonflame or Braviary. Indeed, their closest relatives are actually Honchkrow. Corviknight are also omnivorous, eating seeds and nuts in addition to hunting prey. These Pokémon are famed for their intelligence. Some studies even show that they can outwit Noctowl, Pokémon commonly reputed to be wise and perceptive, in certain problem-solving tasks. Their usage of tools in everyday situations is novel amongst bird Pokémon. Physiologically speaking, Corviknight and their pre-evolutions have a brain-to-body mass ratio that is almost identical to that of humans.","It may come as a surprise to some that Corviknight are in fact passerines rather than true birds of prey like Talonflame or Braviary. Indeed, their closest relatives are actually Honchkrow. Corviknight are also omnivorous, eating seeds and nuts in addition to hunting prey. These Pokémon are famed for their intelligence. Some studies even show that they can outwit Noctowl, Pokémon commonly reputed to be wise and perceptive, in certain problem-solving tasks. Their usage of tools in everyday situations is novel amongst bird Pokémon. Physiologically speaking, Corviknight and their pre-evolutions have a brain-to-body mass ratio that is almost identical to that of humans.","It may come as a surprise to some that Corviknight are in fact passerines rather than true birds of prey like Talonflame or Braviary. Indeed, their closest relatives are actually Honchkrow. Corviknight are also omnivorous, eating seeds and nuts in addition to hunting prey. These Pokémon are famed for their intelligence. Some studies even show that they can outwit Noctowl, Pokémon commonly reputed to be wise and perceptive, in certain problem-solving tasks. Their usage of tools in everyday situations is novel amongst bird Pokémon. Physiologically speaking, Corviknight and their pre-evolutions have a brain-to-body mass ratio that is almost identical to that of humans.","Orbeetle are coleopterans, being in the same genus as Ledian. Their most physically obvious adaptation is their enormous heads, directly connected to their superb intelligence. For fully-evolved Bug-types, Orbeetle are quite small, and it appears that much of their energy is devoted into developing these brains rather than their bodies. Their elytra, normally protecting the wings of Pokémon in these order, instead protect their distended heads. In fact, their wings have disappeared entirely, and only vestigial nubs exist where they used to attach to their bodies. Instead of wings, Orbeetle instead use the psychokinetic energy they constantly emit to levitate themselves in the air.","Orbeetle are coleopterans, being in the same genus as Ledian. Their most physically obvious adaptation is their enormous heads, directly connected to their superb intelligence. For fully-evolved Bug-types, Orbeetle are quite small, and it appears that much of their energy is devoted into developing these brains rather than their bodies. Their elytra, normally protecting the wings of Pokémon in these order, instead protect their distended heads. In fact, their wings have disappeared entirely, and only vestigial nubs exist where they used to attach to their bodies. Instead of wings, Orbeetle instead use the psychokinetic energy they constantly emit to levitate themselves in the air.","Orbeetle are coleopterans, being in the same genus as Ledian. Their most physically obvious adaptation is their enormous heads, directly connected to their superb intelligence. For fully-evolved Bug-types, Orbeetle are quite small, and it appears that much of their energy is devoted into developing these brains rather than their bodies. Their elytra, normally protecting the wings of Pokémon in these order, instead protect their distended heads. In fact, their wings have disappeared entirely, and only vestigial nubs exist where they used to attach to their bodies. Instead of wings, Orbeetle instead use the psychokinetic energy they constantly emit to levitate themselves in the air.","These tricky Pokémon have a habit of stealing even from their trainers. The main hurdle trainers will have to deal with when raising them is making sure that they don't steal from other people and Pokémon around them. This is much easier when raising a young Nickit, though both evolutions can be weaned off their kleptomancy over time, as the consistent food and shelter a trainer provides make such behavior unnecessary for trained individuals.","These tricky Pokémon have a habit of stealing even from their trainers. The main hurdle trainers will have to deal with when raising them is making sure that they don't steal from other people and Pokémon around them. This is much easier when raising a young Nickit, though both evolutions can be weaned off their kleptomancy over time, as the consistent food and shelter a trainer provides make such behavior unnecessary for trained individuals.","Unsurprisingly, these Pokémon are in the same genus as Whimsicott, sharing their fluffy cotton fluff and habit of floating away on breezes. Eldegoss cotton is considered much more of a luxury product than Cottonee and Whimsicott cotton, not only because of its glossier texture but also because of its difficulty of harvest. Unlike Cottonee and Whimsicott, who shed cotton puffs regularly, Eldegoss shed quite infrequently. Additionally, Eldegoss cotton is littered with seeds, which for many years required manual removal  (a process called ginning). It was not until a Unovan inventor mechanized the process that production was streamlined, enabling production on the scale that regions like southern Galar employ today.","Unsurprisingly, these Pokémon are in the same genus as Whimsicott, sharing their fluffy cotton fluff and habit of floating away on breezes. Eldegoss cotton is considered much more of a luxury product than Cottonee and Whimsicott cotton, not only because of its glossier texture but also because of its difficulty of harvest. Unlike Cottonee and Whimsicott, who shed cotton puffs regularly, Eldegoss shed quite infrequently. Additionally, Eldegoss cotton is littered with seeds, which for many years required manual removal  (a process called ginning). It was not until a Unovan inventor mechanized the process that production was streamlined, enabling production on the scale that regions like southern Galar employ today.","Dubwool are close relatives of Ampharos, being in the same genus. They lack the electrogenetic capabilities of their cousins, though both Wooloo and Dubwool wool can generate static electricity in the appropriate conditions. Dubwool also retain their wool after evolution, unlike Ampharos. Scientists believe that because Dubwool evolved in the colder conditions of northern regions like Galar, they relied on their wool to keep themselves warm. Additionally, without developing electrical abilities like Ampharos, they instead needed this shock-absorbent wool to keep themselves safe from harm.","Dubwool are close relatives of Ampharos, being in the same genus. They lack the electrogenetic capabilities of their cousins, though both Wooloo and Dubwool wool can generate static electricity in the appropriate conditions. Dubwool also retain their wool after evolution, unlike Ampharos. Scientists believe that because Dubwool evolved in the colder conditions of northern regions like Galar, they relied on their wool to keep themselves warm. Additionally, without developing electrical abilities like Ampharos, they instead needed this shock-absorbent wool to keep themselves safe from harm.","Drednaw are chelonians, more closely related to Torterra, Torkoal, and Blastoise than to Turtonator. While all species in this group descend from quite ancient lineages, scientists believe that Drednaw have been largely unchanged in the past millennia. It is not difficult to imagine Drednaw dwelling near prehistoric sites of fresh water, but more concretely, both fossil and genetic evidence seem to suggest that Drednaw are very similar to ancient chelonians as well. Their enormous jawbones are difficult to confuse with other species. Some scientists have even gone as far as to coin these Pokémon pseudo-\"living fossils\" due to how similar they appear to be to how they once were in the past.","Drednaw are chelonians, more closely related to Torterra, Torkoal, and Blastoise than to Turtonator. While all species in this group descend from quite ancient lineages, scientists believe that Drednaw have been largely unchanged in the past millennia. It is not difficult to imagine Drednaw dwelling near prehistoric sites of fresh water, but more concretely, both fossil and genetic evidence seem to suggest that Drednaw are very similar to ancient chelonians as well. Their enormous jawbones are difficult to confuse with other species. Some scientists have even gone as far as to coin these Pokémon pseudo-\"living fossils\" due to how similar they appear to be to how they once were in the past.","Scientists are still divided on exactly when Boltund diverged from the other canines. On one hand, the classical theory states that Boltund diverged from an early breed of Stoutland that was not yet fully domesticated, explaining the warmth towards humans even wild Yamper express. A more modern theory, however, instead proposes that Boltund are most closely related to the feral Manectric; both after all share electrogenetic capabilities and the ability to strengthen their muscles with electricity. In this model, Boltund were domesticated separately and more recently than Stoutland, a point that anthropological evidence seems to support. It is currently believed that the first Boltund were domesticated in southern Galar, though the identities of these early herders remains unknown.","Scientists are still divided on exactly when Boltund diverged from the other canines. On one hand, the classical theory states that Boltund diverged from an early breed of Stoutland that was not yet fully domesticated, explaining the warmth towards humans even wild Yamper express. A more modern theory, however, instead proposes that Boltund are most closely related to the feral Manectric; both after all share electrogenetic capabilities and the ability to strengthen their muscles with electricity. In this model, Boltund were domesticated separately and more recently than Stoutland, a point that anthropological evidence seems to support. It is currently believed that the first Boltund were domesticated in southern Galar, though the identities of these early herders remains unknown.","It is hard to think of Pokémon more closely linked to modern human history than Rolycoly and their evolutions. Their discovery was intertwined with the Industrial Revolution in Galar; their decline heralded the birth of the contemporary environmentalist movement; their continued coal production still powers many of the facilities operating around the world today. Some anthropologists have noted that amongst the inorganic Pokémon, Coalossal are consistently rated by people as the most \"endearing\" and \"beloved,\" over Pokémon like Carbink and Klefki. Their unparalleled importance in human history--and perhaps their uniquely herbivorous diets--likely are factors contributing to this public perception.","It is hard to think of Pokémon more closely linked to modern human history than Rolycoly and their evolutions. Their discovery was intertwined with the Industrial Revolution in Galar; their decline heralded the birth of the contemporary environmentalist movement; their continued coal production still powers many of the facilities operating around the world today. Some anthropologists have noted that amongst the inorganic Pokémon, Coalossal are consistently rated by people as the most \"endearing\" and \"beloved,\" over Pokémon like Carbink and Klefki. Their unparalleled importance in human history--and perhaps their uniquely herbivorous diets--likely are factors contributing to this public perception.","It is hard to think of Pokémon more closely linked to modern human history than Rolycoly and their evolutions. Their discovery was intertwined with the Industrial Revolution in Galar; their decline heralded the birth of the contemporary environmentalist movement; their continued coal production still powers many of the facilities operating around the world today. Some anthropologists have noted that amongst the inorganic Pokémon, Coalossal are consistently rated by people as the most \"endearing\" and \"beloved,\" over Pokémon like Carbink and Klefki. Their unparalleled importance in human history--and perhaps their uniquely herbivorous diets--likely are factors contributing to this public perception.","These odd draconians seem hardly related at all to the likes of fearsome Kommo-o and Haxorus. Perhaps their most curious feature is their diminutive size, as they are of course small enough to fit within apples. While this adaptation likely was the result of a successful niche fulfillment, people in the past developed all sorts of mythologies to explain these tiny dragons. One enduring story states that before people walked the earth, Applin were once much larger and more powerful than they are now; they did not need to seek shelter in apples. However, the Applin committed an act of trickery that brought humans into the world. As punishment, the other Pokémon banded together to take away their size and strength, forcing them to seek shelter in tiny fruit and leaving them as we recognize them today.","These odd draconians seem hardly related at all to the likes of fearsome Kommo-o and Haxorus. Perhaps their most curious feature is their diminutive size, as they are of course small enough to fit within apples. While this adaptation likely was the result of a successful niche fulfillment, people in the past developed all sorts of mythologies to explain these tiny dragons. One enduring story states that before people walked the earth, Applin were once much larger and more powerful than they are now; they did not need to seek shelter in apples. However, the Applin committed an act of trickery that brought humans into the world. As punishment, the other Pokémon banded together to take away their size and strength, forcing them to seek shelter in tiny fruit and leaving them as we recognize them today.","These odd draconians seem hardly related at all to the likes of fearsome Kommo-o and Haxorus. Perhaps their most curious feature is their diminutive size, as they are of course small enough to fit within apples. While this adaptation likely was the result of a successful niche fulfillment, people in the past developed all sorts of mythologies to explain these tiny dragons. One enduring story states that before people walked the earth, Applin were once much larger and more powerful than they are now; they did not need to seek shelter in apples. However, the Applin committed an act of trickery that brought humans into the world. As punishment, the other Pokémon banded together to take away their size and strength, forcing them to seek shelter in tiny fruit and leaving them as we recognize them today.","Sandaconda are believed to be relatives of Serperior, who are similarly non-venomous serpentine Pokémon. While Serperior rely on photosynthesis for sustenance, however, Sandaconda are notable for their use of construction as their preferred method of hunting. Scientists believe that the muscles that enabled this construction were also what allowed them to develop their unique method of sand-spitting, a mechanism that also requires substantial core strength when contracting and expanding. Whether the constriction or sand-spitting developed first is a conundrum that is still up for debate.","Sandaconda are believed to be relatives of Serperior, who are similarly non-venomous serpentine Pokémon. While Serperior rely on photosynthesis for sustenance, however, Sandaconda are notable for their use of construction as their preferred method of hunting. Scientists believe that the muscles that enabled this construction were also what allowed them to develop their unique method of sand-spitting, a mechanism that also requires substantial core strength when contracting and expanding. Whether the constriction or sand-spitting developed first is a conundrum that is still up for debate.","Cramorant were traditionally placed in the same order as Pelipper based on physiological similarities—large beaks, for instance. Further research, however, has elucidated a genetic distinction between the two groups. Still, Pelipper remains this Pokémon’s closest extant relative. Cramorant are thought to be a quite ancient species, with similar-looking ancestors co-existing with the likes of Tyrantrum. Some researchers believe that they used to be much more widespread as well, based on their presence in the fossil records of many distinct continents. Their diverse diets may have made them resistant to environmental changes that would have wiped out entire food sources for more picky eaters.","Both evolutions are hunters that primarily prey upon piscine species. They are indiscriminate when it comes to hunting, launching themselves at nearly anything that moves. Groups of Barraskewda have been observed taking down large Alomomola and even Wailord.","Both evolutions are hunters that primarily prey upon piscine species. They are indiscriminate when it comes to hunting, launching themselves at nearly anything that moves. Groups of Barraskewda have been observed taking down large Alomomola and even Wailord.","Centiskorch are a part of Chilopoda alongside Scolipede. Sharing an an elongated body and many pairs of legs, their most notable difference is their body structure; while Scolipede are rounded and almost equine in posture, Centiskorch are flattened like ribbons and generally stay close to the ground. Scientists believe that this adaptation allowed Centiskorch to fit into the tight nooks and crannies between rocks on the mountainside, allowing them to seek out hidden prey. Whereas Scolipede prioritize speed and brute strength, Centiskorch instead rely on maneuverability and literal firepower. Researchers have postulated that Centiskorch have in fact reached a natural lower limit on body thickness; any thinner would prevent their internal organs from fitting together properly.","Centiskorch are a part of Chilopoda alongside Scolipede. Sharing an an elongated body and many pairs of legs, their most notable difference is their body structure; while Scolipede are rounded and almost equine in posture, Centiskorch are flattened like ribbons and generally stay close to the ground. Scientists believe that this adaptation allowed Centiskorch to fit into the tight nooks and crannies between rocks on the mountainside, allowing them to seek out hidden prey. Whereas Scolipede prioritize speed and brute strength, Centiskorch instead rely on maneuverability and literal firepower. Researchers have postulated that Centiskorch have in fact reached a natural lower limit on body thickness; any thinner would prevent their internal organs from fitting together properly.","Toxtricity are most closely related to Kecleon and Inteleon, though their bizzare appearances may not make this immediately obvious. These Pokémon have adapted for an arid environment compared to the temperate and tropical climates that Kecleon and Inteleon call home. Ironically, while both of these relatives rely on stealth, Toxtricity focuses on the opposite extreme. Toxel are a textbook example of aposematism, as their bright coloration warns would-be predators of their toxicity. Toxtricity, who do not have many (if any) natural predators, instead seem to maintain this bright coloration for mating purposes rather than self-defense; brighter individuals appear to seem more desirable to prospective partners.","Toxtricity are most closely related to Kecleon and Inteleon, though their bizzare appearances may not make this immediately obvious. These Pokémon have adapted for an arid environment compared to the temperate and tropical climates that Kecleon and Inteleon call home. Ironically, while both of these relatives rely on stealth, Toxtricity focuses on the opposite extreme. Toxel are a textbook example of aposematism, as their bright coloration warns would-be predators of their toxicity. Toxtricity, who do not have many (if any) natural predators, instead seem to maintain this bright coloration for mating purposes rather than self-defense; brighter individuals appear to seem more desirable to prospective partners.","These close relatives of Octillery are notable for their semiaquatic lifestyles. Much like their more distant relative Malamar, these cephalopods can spend significant amounts of time out of the water with no ill effects. Scientists hypothesize that Grapploct may have evolved their punching prowess as a method of ambush hunting, allowing them to make up for their middling aquatic speed by lashing out at and immobilizing passing prey with powerful blows. The strengthened muscles that allowed this then helped Grapploct maneuver more easily in shallow waters and perhaps even the shoreline for brief periods of time. Eventually, available resources further inland may have pressured them to evolve full amphibian behavior in order to exploit these resources.","These close relatives of Octillery are notable for their semiaquatic lifestyles. Much like their more distant relative Malamar, these cephalopods can spend significant amounts of time out of the water with no ill effects. Scientists hypothesize that Grapploct may have evolved their punching prowess as a method of ambush hunting, allowing them to make up for their middling aquatic speed by lashing out at and immobilizing passing prey with powerful blows. The strengthened muscles that allowed this then helped Grapploct maneuver more easily in shallow waters and perhaps even the shoreline for brief periods of time. Eventually, available resources further inland may have pressured them to evolve full amphibian behavior in order to exploit these resources.","These peculiar Pokémon are similar to other Ghost-types in that they are believed to be spirits inhabiting a material vessel. Phasmologists liken them to Pokémon like Trevenant and Palossand for this reason. Some believe that their particular affinity for fine porcelain, and the dislike that Polteageist have of forgeries, may link them specifically to the spirits of deceased royal aristocrats. Their association with Galar, a region known for its aristocracy, further supports this hypothesis. Exactly why these Pokémon choose to inhabit tea specifically, rather than the vessels containing it, however, remains a mystery. Indeed, this oddity is reflected in its scientific name; Murrina refers to porcelain rather than tea, as these Pokémon were once mistakenly thought to inhabit the cups and pots containing the liquid instead of the tea itself.","These peculiar Pokémon are similar to other Ghost-types in that they are believed to be spirits inhabiting a material vessel. Phasmologists liken them to Pokémon like Trevenant and Palossand for this reason. Some believe that their particular affinity for fine porcelain, and the dislike that Polteageist have of forgeries, may link them specifically to the spirits of deceased royal aristocrats. Their association with Galar, a region known for its aristocracy, further supports this hypothesis. Exactly why these Pokémon choose to inhabit tea specifically, rather than the vessels containing it, however, remains a mystery. Indeed, this oddity is reflected in its scientific name; Murrina refers to porcelain rather than tea, as these Pokémon were once mistakenly thought to inhabit the cups and pots containing the liquid instead of the tea itself.","Hatterene are thought to be very close relatives of Gardevoir and Gallade; both are humanoid creatures that are highly sensitive to the emotional states of others. While Gardevoir will tolerate or even appreciate strong emotions, however, Hatterene detest them, and the two species have starkly opposing opinions of the average human as a result. Some scientists even believe that this contrast in how these Pokémon handle emotional stress was a contributing factor to their development as separate species. According to this theory, the two shared a common ancestor who underwent divergent evolution to fill two niches: one embracing and feeding upon emotion, and the other shying away from it and using it as a warning system to detect danger.","Hatterene are thought to be very close relatives of Gardevoir and Gallade; both are humanoid creatures that are highly sensitive to the emotional states of others. While Gardevoir will tolerate or even appreciate strong emotions, however, Hatterene detest them, and the two species have starkly opposing opinions of the average human as a result. Some scientists even believe that this contrast in how these Pokémon handle emotional stress was a contributing factor to their development as separate species. According to this theory, the two shared a common ancestor who underwent divergent evolution to fill two niches: one embracing and feeding upon emotion, and the other shying away from it and using it as a warning system to detect danger.","Hatterene are thought to be very close relatives of Gardevoir and Gallade; both are humanoid creatures that are highly sensitive to the emotional states of others. While Gardevoir will tolerate or even appreciate strong emotions, however, Hatterene detest them, and the two species have starkly opposing opinions of the average human as a result. Some scientists even believe that this contrast in how these Pokémon handle emotional stress was a contributing factor to their development as separate species. According to this theory, the two shared a common ancestor who underwent divergent evolution to fill two niches: one embracing and feeding upon emotion, and the other shying away from it and using it as a warning system to detect danger.","Impidimp have historically been difficult to classify. They were once tentatively placed in the genus Similis due to their humanoid proportions, but they were noticeably less humanoid than many of the genus's other members. Some researchers proposed a new genus, Fascinus, to contain the fae-like species that did not quite fit in with the other humanoids. In particular, all members of this genus shared a Fairy-typing in addition to general physiological similarities. After a few years of gaining traction, this addition has now been adopted by mainstream taxonomy. Today Impidimp now comfortably fit into Fascinus  with the likes of Hatterene, Alcremie, and Mawile.","Impidimp have historically been difficult to classify. They were once tentatively placed in the genus Similis due to their humanoid proportions, but they were noticeably less humanoid than many of the genus's other members. Some researchers proposed a new genus, Fascinus, to contain the fae-like species that did not quite fit in with the other humanoids. In particular, all members of this genus shared a Fairy-typing in addition to general physiological similarities. After a few years of gaining traction, this addition has now been adopted by mainstream taxonomy. Today Impidimp now comfortably fit into Fascinus  with the likes of Hatterene, Alcremie, and Mawile.","Impidimp have historically been difficult to classify. They were once tentatively placed in the genus Similis due to their humanoid proportions, but they were noticeably less humanoid than many of the genus's other members. Some researchers proposed a new genus, Fascinus, to contain the fae-like species that did not quite fit in with the other humanoids. In particular, all members of this genus shared a Fairy-typing in addition to general physiological similarities. After a few years of gaining traction, this addition has now been adopted by mainstream taxonomy. Today Impidimp now comfortably fit into Fascinus  with the likes of Hatterene, Alcremie, and Mawile.","The Zigzagoon line is thought to be one of the earliest-diverging carnivorans (in classification; they are omnivores in practice). Its closest extant relative is perhaps the Pokémon Spinda, even though it superficially resembles the likes of Furret or Floatzel. The family is of particular interest to some urban scientists because it seems to have not only persisted, but thrived in deforested areas turned into cities. Zigzagoon are well adapted to foraging in trash cans for food, and Linoone can easily dash through the straight, grid-like streets of major metropolises. Their success is a testament to nature’s resilience and adaptability even in the face of change.","While Persian are unmistakably felines, the scientific community has only recently reached a consensus as to exactly where the Pokémon stand in the family. Physically, both in morphology and in size, Persian appear to be “big cats,” and were once grouped as such alongside the likes of Liepard, Pyroar, and Luxray. They are now classified with the “small cats,” albeit as the largest members of the group, due to recent DNA and skeletal evidence. The resemblances between Meowth and other small cats like Skitty and Glameow are readily apparent. Additionally, like the other small cats, Persian tend to thrive in urban environments, either as strays or as pets.","Corsola are an integral part of tropical marine ecosystems. Their horns, both live and discarded, form the foundation of reefs, providing nooks and crannies for small Pokémon to hide in. However, because Corsola are very sensitive to changes in temperature and water purity, the reefs that they form are also fragile. Most notably, the worldwide increase in pollution levels due to human activity has adversely affected Corsola reefs, causing them to decay and shrink in area. Fierce conservation efforts to protect these Pokémon and the ecosystems they support are underway. These surprisingly-close relatives of Tentacruel are also lauded for their regenerative abilities.","Farfetch’d are very rare in the wild because of overhunting in the recent past. For this reason, information that would normally arise from naturalistic observation of the Pokémon is scarce. Regardless, they clearly appear to be waterfowl, grouped with Pokémon like Swanna and Golduck (though the placement of the latter is very controversial). Though they appear to be rather “generic” and typical of their order, they do have a notable adaptation in that their wings have evolved to become more finger-like in order to allow them to better grasp leeks. This is significant in that it is one of the few known natural cases where a species has evolved the ability to use tools.","Many people find Mr. Mime to be deeply unsettling because of how humanoid, but not quite human, they look. Researchers agree that they are likely the closest link between people and Pokémon, citing support such as: their similar physiology, their great intellect, their affinities for towns and cities, their distinctly human-like skin, and their near-identical brain structures. The physical differences between people and Mr. Mime can largely be attributed to two primary differences. Firstly, these Pokémon store fat entirely in their torsos, giving them very slender limbs. Secondly, their joints are all synovial, allowing them to bend at odd, sometimes disturbing angles.","These Pokémon are perhaps better known by the superstitions surrounding them than by science itself. Yamask, with their eerily humanlike cries and masks, are said to be the spirits of a deceased ancient peoples; Cofagrigus are thought to trap and mummify grave robbers that sneak into their tombs. Phasmologists (scientists who specialize in studying spectral Ghost-types) believe that these Pokémon may actually be related to species like Trevenant and Palossand; all of them are Ghost-types that inhabit or create material bodies, which in the case of Cofagrigus are golden sarcophagi.","Alcremie are fascinating creatures, not least because they are made more or less entirely out of a cream-like substance. Scientists have discovered that Alcremie do in fact consist of cells as well, but these cells are clustered tightly together and are enveloped thickly by airy cream. It is thought that Alcremie cells provide them with the bare minimum to see, hear, and maintain a rough structure. A significant portion of them are actually dedicated to secreting the cream that makes up the majority of their bodies. How such a drastic physiology may have evolved is a mystery that still stumps scientists to this day, and the fragility of Milcery and Alcremie make them difficult to study closely without causing them harm.","Alcremie are fascinating creatures, not least because they are made more or less entirely out of a cream-like substance. Scientists have discovered that Alcremie do in fact consist of cells as well, but these cells are clustered tightly together and are enveloped thickly by airy cream. It is thought that Alcremie cells provide them with the bare minimum to see, hear, and maintain a rough structure. A significant portion of them are actually dedicated to secreting the cream that makes up the majority of their bodies. How such a drastic physiology may have evolved is a mystery that still stumps scientists to this day, and the fragility of Milcery and Alcremie make them difficult to study closely without causing them harm.","When first discovered, scientists first thought that Falinks were in some way related to Exeggcute, due to the fact that they invariably congregate into groups of six. However, beyond this peculiar quirk, the two share almost nothing in common (Exeggcute being plant-like Pokémon and Falinks being vertebrates, for starters). Today, they are tentatively placed with other humanoids in Similis, though this classification is controversial. Researchers that do agree with this placement place Falinks closest Sableye, sharing their diminutive stature. Others propose a new genus be created solely for Falinks to account for its uniquely simple body plan and other features compared to the other members of Similis.","","Frosmoth are commonly viewed as the icy cousins of Volcarona; both are hemimetabolic lepidopterans that inhabit areas inhospitable to humans. These Pokémon have puzzled generations of scientists because despite being invertebrates with no form of internal temperature regulation, they clearly inhabit freezing climates with no ill effects. Some believed that Frosmoth may in fact be endotherms, retaining heat with their thick, parka-like fuzz. However, no evidence has been found to support this hypothesis. Recently, researchers have discovered that these Pokémon have an antifreeze-like compound in their bodies that keeps them limber even when chilled below freezing point, though exact details remain to be elucidated.","Frosmoth are commonly viewed as the icy cousins of Volcarona; both are hemimetabolic lepidopterans that inhabit areas inhospitable to humans. These Pokémon have puzzled generations of scientists because despite being invertebrates with no form of internal temperature regulation, they clearly inhabit freezing climates with no ill effects. Some believed that Frosmoth may in fact be endotherms, retaining heat with their thick, parka-like fuzz. However, no evidence has been found to support this hypothesis. Recently, researchers have discovered that these Pokémon have an antifreeze-like compound in their bodies that keeps them limber even when chilled below freezing point, though exact details remain to be elucidated.","These mysterious Pokémon are shrouded in myth and legend. Countless anthropologists have proposed possible explanations for their rituals. Perhaps these Pokémon were built by ancient Galarians for worship or burial purposes, or perhaps they kept time for agricultural harvests. Some even believe Stonjourner have extraterrestrial origins. A recent study has shown that, during their yearly rituals, the very center of a Stonjourner circle contains very bizarre electromagnetic readings that are much higher than the surrounding area. Researchers have coined these centers \"power spots\" in reference to the Dynamax-capable regions of Galar, but their exact function is still unknown. Further studies are stymied by the fact that these rituals only occur once a year, as well as fact that Stonjourner are very protective of their circles and dislike anyone getting inside them.","Naturally, Eiscue are believed to be the closest relatives of Empoleon. Scientists believe that like their cousins, Eiscue were once agile underwater hunters as well. However, their ice blocks now drastically hinder their maneuverability in the water; in fact, it prevents them from submerging entirely due to the difference in density. However, Eiscue make up for this with the possibility of extraordinary long-distance travel; Eiscue can simply float alongside ocean currents to far-off areas without exerting much energy. They can rest on top of floating icebergs and catch prey with their dangling hairs as they continue to travel. This adaptation has given them a far greater range worldwide than Empoleon, as well as greater adaptability to a shifting climate--Eiscue can follow the currents to colder areas if their current habitats warm up.","Indeedee are thought to be close relatives of Audino, based on their similar physical appearances. Both Pokémon are also well-adapted to life with humans; Audino are commonly employed in the health industry, while Indeedee often work in the service industry. Some scientists believe that both are highly-evolved lagomorphs that adapted alongside humans, diverging quite recently to fulfill different niches of human need. Indeed both wild Audino and Indeedee tend to not fare as well as urban individuals by common measures of general health and prosperity, suggesting an evolutionary bias towards human settlements.","Morpeko today are comfortably classified as rodents, much like Greedent, Pachirisu, and Emolga. However, this was not always the case in the past. These Pokémon were the center of a minor controversy when a group of scientists announced that they had genetic evidence that Morpeko resemble rodents merely due to convergent evolution, and that they were not, in fact, close relatives at all. However, intense scrutinization revealed that the genetic evidence the scientists had proposed was insufficient, as they had overestimated the difference between the DNA of Morpeko and that of other rodents. Further analysis revealed a close similarity between the two, decisively ending the controversy.","Unsurprisingly, Copperajah are close relatives of Donphan. They are better suited for tropical jungles and their frequent rainfall than their relatives. These Pokémon are famous for their great intelligence, especially as non-Psychic-types. Herds of Copperajah seem to observe rituals when it comes to births and deaths. When a Copperajah passes, for instance, its fellow herd members will excavate the earth beneath where it died and bury it alongside copper ore. Some argue that because of their aptitude, it is immoral to employ Copperajah in menial labor tasks. However, research into Copperajah cognition is still quite murky and undefined, and some studies have been controversial in both methodology and conclusions.","Unsurprisingly, Copperajah are close relatives of Donphan. They are better suited for tropical jungles and their frequent rainfall than their relatives. These Pokémon are famous for their great intelligence, especially as non-Psychic-types. Herds of Copperajah seem to observe rituals when it comes to births and deaths. When a Copperajah passes, for instance, its fellow herd members will excavate the earth beneath where it died and bury it alongside copper ore. Some argue that because of their aptitude, it is immoral to employ Copperajah in menial labor tasks. However, research into Copperajah cognition is still quite murky and undefined, and some studies have been controversial in both methodology and conclusions.","To put it simply, these Pokémon are amongst the biggest blunders of scientific history. Today, a significant portion of paleontological funds go towards keeping individuals in captivity as comfortable as possible to provide a bit of compensation for resurrecting them in the first place. To fully understand the origin of this mistake, one should know that the first Galarian paleontologists did not unearth any complete fossils. Rather, they had unearthed partial skeletons of some draconians, avians, pinnipeds, and fish. Though they had been incorrectly put together, they did not realize this at the time, and thus they assembled future fossils in a similar way. After resurrection technology arrived, because the revived versions aligned with the belief that these Pokémon were poorly adapted, stubborn scientists persisted in believing that the original models were correct. It was only in the face of overwhelming evidence otherwise that they relented. Today, the story is a parable that warns scientists to keep their minds open to new ideas that may challenge their current beliefs.","To put it simply, these Pokémon are amongst the biggest blunders of scientific history. Today, a significant portion of paleontological funds go towards keeping individuals in captivity as comfortable as possible to provide a bit of compensation for resurrecting them in the first place. To fully understand the origin of this mistake, one should know that the first Galarian paleontologists did not unearth any complete fossils. Rather, they had unearthed partial skeletons of some draconians, avians, pinnipeds, and fish. Though they had been incorrectly put together, they did not realize this at the time, and thus they assembled future fossils in a similar way. After resurrection technology arrived, because the revived versions aligned with the belief that these Pokémon were poorly adapted, stubborn scientists persisted in believing that the original models were correct. It was only in the face of overwhelming evidence otherwise that they relented. Today, the story is a parable that warns scientists to keep their minds open to new ideas that may challenge their current beliefs.","To put it simply, these Pokémon are amongst the biggest blunders of scientific history. Today, a significant portion of paleontological funds go towards keeping individuals in captivity as comfortable as possible to provide a bit of compensation for resurrecting them in the first place. To fully understand the origin of this mistake, one should know that the first Galarian paleontologists did not unearth any complete fossils. Rather, they had unearthed partial skeletons of some draconians, avians, pinnipeds, and fish. Though they had been incorrectly put together, they did not realize this at the time, and thus they assembled future fossils in a similar way. After resurrection technology arrived, because the revived versions aligned with the belief that these Pokémon were poorly adapted, stubborn scientists persisted in believing that the original models were correct. It was only in the face of overwhelming evidence otherwise that they relented. Today, the story is a parable that warns scientists to keep their minds open to new ideas that may challenge their current beliefs.","To put it simply, these Pokémon are amongst the biggest blunders of scientific history. Today, a significant portion of paleontological funds go towards keeping individuals in captivity as comfortable as possible to provide a bit of compensation for resurrecting them in the first place. To fully understand the origin of this mistake, one should know that the first Galarian paleontologists did not unearth any complete fossils. Rather, they had unearthed partial skeletons of some draconians, avians, pinnipeds, and fish. Though they had been incorrectly put together, they did not realize this at the time, and thus they assembled future fossils in a similar way. After resurrection technology arrived, because the revived versions aligned with the belief that these Pokémon were poorly adapted, stubborn scientists persisted in believing that the original models were correct. It was only in the face of overwhelming evidence otherwise that they relented. Today, the story is a parable that warns scientists to keep their minds open to new ideas that may challenge their current beliefs.","Ironically, scientists believe that Duraludon are very closely related to their main rivals Tyranitar, even moreso than Tyrantrum. Both are in fact placed in the same genus, with their primary difference being Duraludon's metal alloy carapace. Though they share no typings, both Pokémon share a similar physiology, dwell in similar habitats, and require minerals to strengthen their bodies. It is these latter two traits that also make them fierce competitors in the wild, competing over both territory and resources. Duraludon have no pre-evolutions, however, and female Duraludon do not share the maternal instinct that female Tyranitar possess. As parental instinct is thought to be a later development, some scientists believe that Duraludon may more closely resemble the most recent common ancestor the two species had shared (still being after the extinct Tyrantrum), just with an improved carapace.","Dreepy were believed to be ancient amphibians, and while their Ghost-typings may be slightly unusual, this is where scientists still place them today. Ancient Dreepy were likely mostly aquatic, only venturing onto land for short periods of time. Exactly how they arrived at their current forms is still an unanswered question. Whether they truly are the spirits of a deceased species, or simply a striking and drastic evolutionary adaptation is unknown. Naturally, the scientific community leans towards the latter, but evidence is currently lacking in either direction. At the very least, popular media certainly leans towards the former as a more enticing explanation for their Ghost-typings.","Dreepy were believed to be ancient amphibians, and while their Ghost-typings may be slightly unusual, this is where scientists still place them today. Ancient Dreepy were likely mostly aquatic, only venturing onto land for short periods of time. Exactly how they arrived at their current forms is still an unanswered question. Whether they truly are the spirits of a deceased species, or simply a striking and drastic evolutionary adaptation is unknown. Naturally, the scientific community leans towards the latter, but evidence is currently lacking in either direction. At the very least, popular media certainly leans towards the former as a more enticing explanation for their Ghost-typings.","Dreepy were believed to be ancient amphibians, and while their Ghost-typings may be slightly unusual, this is where scientists still place them today. Ancient Dreepy were likely mostly aquatic, only venturing onto land for short periods of time. Exactly how they arrived at their current forms is still an unanswered question. Whether they truly are the spirits of a deceased species, or simply a striking and drastic evolutionary adaptation is unknown. Naturally, the scientific community leans towards the latter, but evidence is currently lacking in either direction. At the very least, popular media certainly leans towards the former as a more enticing explanation for their Ghost-typings.","","","",