"Bulbasaur and their evolutions are the mellowest of all the Kanto starters, and the easiest for beginning trainers to raise. With that being said, it should be noted that all members of the line are capable of releasing Poison Powder when threatened. Venusaur in particular also release pollen during mating season that can trigger allergies in some trainers. They also emit a fragrance that attracts Bug-type Pokémon, which some people find a nuisance.","Bulbasaur and their evolutions are the mellowest of all the Kanto starters, and the easiest for beginning trainers to raise. With that being said, it should be noted that all members of the line are capable of releasing Poison Powder when threatened. Venusaur in particular also release pollen during mating season that can trigger allergies in some trainers. They also emit a fragrance that attracts Bug-type Pokémon, which some people find a nuisance.","Bulbasaur and their evolutions are the mellowest of all the Kanto starters, and the easiest for beginning trainers to raise. With that being said, it should be noted that all members of the line are capable of releasing Poison Powder when threatened. Venusaur in particular also release pollen during mating season that can trigger allergies in some trainers. They also emit a fragrance that attracts Bug-type Pokémon, which some people find a nuisance.","The most pressing concern with Charmander and their evolutions is the open flames on their tails. They may not always be fully aware of how they swing the appendages, and may accidentally light things on fire from time to time. Charmeleon may lash out physically at others, including their trainers, while having mood swings. It is best to give them plenty of space and leave them be when this happens, as they will calm down with time.","The most pressing concern with Charmander and their evolutions is the open flames on their tails. They may not always be fully aware of how they swing the appendages, and may accidentally light things on fire from time to time. Charmeleon may lash out physically at others, including their trainers, while having mood swings. It is best to give them plenty of space and leave them be when this happens, as they will calm down with time.","The most pressing concern with Charmander and their evolutions is the open flames on their tails. They may not always be fully aware of how they swing the appendages, and may accidentally light things on fire from time to time. Charmeleon may lash out physically at others, including their trainers, while having mood swings. It is best to give them plenty of space and leave them be when this happens, as they will calm down with time.","The Squirtle line is one of the safest for beginning trainers to raise, with very few potential dangers. The only possible concern regarding these Pokémon is the incredibly high-pressured water that Blastoise can shoot out of their cannons, which is strong enough to break bones. Trained Blastoise, however, should not be firing blasts of water indiscriminately, so even this is rarely a problem.","The Squirtle line is one of the safest for beginning trainers to raise, with very few potential dangers. The only possible concern regarding these Pokémon is the incredibly high-pressured water that Blastoise can shoot out of their cannons, which is strong enough to break bones. Trained Blastoise, however, should not be firing blasts of water indiscriminately, so even this is rarely a problem.","The Squirtle line is one of the safest for beginning trainers to raise, with very few potential dangers. The only possible concern regarding these Pokémon is the incredibly high-pressured water that Blastoise can shoot out of their cannons, which is strong enough to break bones. Trained Blastoise, however, should not be firing blasts of water indiscriminately, so even this is rarely a problem.","Caterpie and Metapod present next to no potential danger to beginning trainers, other than the potentially annoying String Shot. Butterfree are also very safe Pokémon to raise, as they are very docile and rarely attack. However, they do shed the scales that cover their wings over time, which can trigger allergies in some people. Though not parental, wild Buttefree are known to defend unrelated Caterpie they notice under duress with poisonous scales.","Caterpie and Metapod present next to no potential danger to beginning trainers, other than the potentially annoying String Shot. Butterfree are also very safe Pokémon to raise, as they are very docile and rarely attack. However, they do shed the scales that cover their wings over time, which can trigger allergies in some people. Though not parental, wild Buttefree are known to defend unrelated Caterpie they notice under duress with poisonous scales.","Caterpie and Metapod present next to no potential danger to beginning trainers, other than the potentially annoying String Shot. Butterfree are also very safe Pokémon to raise, as they are very docile and rarely attack. However, they do shed the scales that cover their wings over time, which can trigger allergies in some people. Though not parental, wild Buttefree are known to defend unrelated Caterpie they notice under duress with poisonous scales.","It should be noted that all members of the Weedle line have venomous stingers in some form, including Kakuna (whose barbs are hidden in the bottom tips of their shells, only extended when greatly endangered). While Weedle and Kakuna venom can cause inflammation and pain, Beedrill venom can cause paralysis; since wild Beedrill attack in swarms, severe complications and even death sometimes occur due to multiple stings from a Beedrill swarm.","It should be noted that all members of the Weedle line have venomous stingers in some form, including Kakuna (whose barbs are hidden in the bottom tips of their shells, only extended when greatly endangered). While Weedle and Kakuna venom can cause inflammation and pain, Beedrill venom can cause paralysis; since wild Beedrill attack in swarms, severe complications and even death sometimes occur due to multiple stings from a Beedrill swarm.","It should be noted that all members of the Weedle line have venomous stingers in some form, including Kakuna (whose barbs are hidden in the bottom tips of their shells, only extended when greatly endangered). While Weedle and Kakuna venom can cause inflammation and pain, Beedrill venom can cause paralysis; since wild Beedrill attack in swarms, severe complications and even death sometimes occur due to multiple stings from a Beedrill swarm.","Pidgey and their evolutions pose little threat to trainers who respect their space. Pidgey are skittish, however, and will whip up small gusts that can knock people over when startled. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot can create more powerful windstorms and also attack with their beaks and talons, but attacks against humans are exceedingly rare and almost always the result of prior harrasment or abuse.","Pidgey and their evolutions pose little threat to trainers who respect their space. Pidgey are skittish, however, and will whip up small gusts that can knock people over when startled. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot can create more powerful windstorms and also attack with their beaks and talons, but attacks against humans are exceedingly rare and almost always the result of prior harrasment or abuse.","Pidgey and their evolutions pose little threat to trainers who respect their space. Pidgey are skittish, however, and will whip up small gusts that can knock people over when startled. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot can create more powerful windstorms and also attack with their beaks and talons, but attacks against humans are exceedingly rare and almost always the result of prior harrasment or abuse.","The primary danger with Rattata and Raticate is their incisors, which are very sharp. They will bite those that startle them as a reflex, sometimes even biting their trainers. Raticate are especially touchy about their whiskers, snapping if they are even brushed. Their bites may become infected, leading to further complications. Allowing them to whittle their teeth on boards and being careful not to scare them should be sufficient in preventing serious injury from these Pokémon.","The primary danger with Rattata and Raticate is their incisors, which are very sharp. They will bite those that startle them as a reflex, sometimes even biting their trainers. Raticate are especially touchy about their whiskers, snapping if they are even brushed. Their bites may become infected, leading to further complications. Allowing them to whittle their teeth on boards and being careful not to scare them should be sufficient in preventing serious injury from these Pokémon.","Spearow can be nuisances on their own, as they will not hesitate to peck and claw at threats. More dangerously, they will almost always summon their flocks when threatened, which can be a very serious hazard. Fearow are territorial and threatening with their sharp beaks. They will back down if travelers prove they aren’t threats, however (for example, by withdrawing Pokémon into their Poké Balls).","Spearow can be nuisances on their own, as they will not hesitate to peck and claw at threats. More dangerously, they will almost always summon their flocks when threatened, which can be a very serious hazard. Fearow are territorial and threatening with their sharp beaks. They will back down if travelers prove they aren’t threats, however (for example, by withdrawing Pokémon into their Poké Balls).","Of course, trainers should be cautious around both Ekans and Arbok because they are venomous. Ekans are actually more dangerous than Arbok in this regard, because they cannot control the amount of venom they inject in a bite. Arbok, however, are also dangerous because of their constrictive abilities. Struggling will only cause them to tighten; one should attempt to kick their tails, which can trigger an involuntarily loosening of their muscles.","Of course, trainers should be cautious around both Ekans and Arbok because they are venomous. Ekans are actually more dangerous than Arbok in this regard, because they cannot control the amount of venom they inject in a bite. Arbok, however, are also dangerous because of their constrictive abilities. Struggling will only cause them to tighten; one should attempt to kick their tails, which can trigger an involuntarily loosening of their muscles.","All members of the Pichu line are capable of discharging painful, though not usually fatal, voltages of electricity. Pikachu and Raichu will shock threats with only enough voltage to stun them--however, they are easily spooked, so trainers should be careful when approaching them. Touching their cheek pouches will also result in shocks. More caution should be taken with Pichu, who cannot control their electricity; luckily, their jolts tend to be milder than those of their evolutions. Forests with many Pikachu are more prone to thunderstorms due to the","All members of the Pichu line are capable of discharging painful, though not usually fatal, voltages of electricity. Pikachu and Raichu will shock threats with only enough voltage to stun them--however, they are easily spooked, so trainers should be careful when approaching them. Touching their cheek pouches will also result in shocks. More caution should be taken with Pichu, who cannot control their electricity; luckily, their jolts tend to be milder than those of their evolutions. Forests with many Pikachu are more prone to thunderstorms due to the","The main danger that arises from raising Sandslash is their spiky armor and sharp claws. Sandslash often curl around into balls and roll around, and cannot see where they are going while doing so. Trainers should make loud noises if a Sandslash rolls towards them, alerting it to stop rolling. Though Sandshrew and Sandslash both have mildly poisonous saliva, their poison has very little effect on humans.","The main danger that arises from raising Sandslash is their spiky armor and sharp claws. Sandslash often curl around into balls and roll around, and cannot see where they are going while doing so. Trainers should make loud noises if a Sandslash rolls towards them, alerting it to stop rolling. Though Sandshrew and Sandslash both have mildly poisonous saliva, their poison has very little effect on humans.","It is no surprise that the main concern with any Pokémon in this family is their powerful poison. Nidoran in particular can be dangerous because they are easily spooked and will accidentally lash out in terror. Though their evolutions are aggressive, they will also give warnings before striking, allowing threats to back down. Nidorino have the most potent poison of the line, since they do the bulk of the outside foraging; their poison can paralyze a person’s heart without medical attention.","It is no surprise that the main concern with any Pokémon in this family is their powerful poison. Nidoran in particular can be dangerous because they are easily spooked and will accidentally lash out in terror. Though their evolutions are aggressive, they will also give warnings before striking, allowing threats to back down. Nidorino have the most potent poison of the line, since they do the bulk of the outside foraging; their poison can paralyze a person’s heart without medical attention.","It is no surprise that the main concern with any Pokémon in this family is their powerful poison. Nidoran in particular can be dangerous because they are easily spooked and will accidentally lash out in terror. Though their evolutions are aggressive, they will also give warnings before striking, allowing threats to back down. Nidorino have the most potent poison of the line, since they do the bulk of the outside foraging; their poison can paralyze a person’s heart without medical attention.","It is no surprise that the main concern with any Pokémon in this family is their powerful poison. Nidoran in particular can be dangerous because they are easily spooked and will accidentally lash out in terror. Though their evolutions are aggressive, they will also give warnings before striking, allowing threats to back down. Nidorino have the most potent poison of the line, since they do the bulk of the outside foraging; their poison can paralyze a person’s heart without medical attention.","It is no surprise that the main concern with any Pokémon in this family is their powerful poison. Nidoran in particular can be dangerous because they are easily spooked and will accidentally lash out in terror. Though their evolutions are aggressive, they will also give warnings before striking, allowing threats to back down. Nidorino have the most potent poison of the line, since they do the bulk of the outside foraging; their poison can paralyze a person’s heart without medical attention.","It is no surprise that the main concern with any Pokémon in this family is their powerful poison. Nidoran in particular can be dangerous because they are easily spooked and will accidentally lash out in terror. Though their evolutions are aggressive, they will also give warnings before striking, allowing threats to back down. Nidorino have the most potent poison of the line, since they do the bulk of the outside foraging; their poison can paralyze a person’s heart without medical attention.","Clefairy are known for their kleptomania, as they seem to steal ordinary objects like keys, flash drives, and calculators for no discernible reason--even from their trainers. Valuable objects should be kept out of reach or locked up in safes. These Pokémon are very timid and hate conflict; however, they may defend themselves with Metronome when threatened, which by nature makes them extremely unpredictable and potentially very dangerous.","Clefairy are known for their kleptomania, as they seem to steal ordinary objects like keys, flash drives, and calculators for no discernible reason--even from their trainers. Valuable objects should be kept out of reach or locked up in safes. These Pokémon are very timid and hate conflict; however, they may defend themselves with Metronome when threatened, which by nature makes them extremely unpredictable and potentially very dangerous.","Surprisingly, the largest concern regarding these Pokémon is not necessarily the fire that they can spew (though trainers should still be cautious around it). Instead, the Ghost-type attacks they sometimes use can prove more troublesome. While it hasn’t been proven that Ninetales curse those who touch their tails for 1,000 years, they will ferociously lash out at those who even brush against their fur with moves like Flamethrower, Hex, or even Grudge.","Surprisingly, the largest concern regarding these Pokémon is not necessarily the fire that they can spew (though trainers should still be cautious around it). Instead, the Ghost-type attacks they sometimes use can prove more troublesome. While it hasn’t been proven that Ninetales curse those who touch their tails for 1,000 years, they will ferociously lash out at those who even brush against their fur with moves like Flamethrower, Hex, or even Grudge.","Overall, the Igglybuff line is a great choice for starting trainers because their rubbery bodies allow them to bounce back from wear and tear and their affinities for people make them easy to raise. They pose little threat to humans because of their light weights. Trainers should be wary of Jigglypuff, however; falling asleep during one of their singing performances will anger them and trigger them to slap their audiences awake.","Overall, the Igglybuff line is a great choice for starting trainers because their rubbery bodies allow them to bounce back from wear and tear and their affinities for people make them easy to raise. They pose little threat to humans because of their light weights. Trainers should be wary of Jigglypuff, however; falling asleep during one of their singing performances will anger them and trigger them to slap their audiences awake.","Virtually all trainers are familiar with how annoying Zubat and Golbat can be while exploring caves. In addition to being poisonous, both Pokémon can use moves like Confuse Ray and Supersonic to disorient travelers. Golbat are known to suck blood from spelunkers foolish enough to sleep in their territory. It should go without saying that cavern explorers should remember to pack plenty of repels. Crobat for the most part are not aggressive to humans.","Virtually all trainers are familiar with how annoying Zubat and Golbat can be while exploring caves. In addition to being poisonous, both Pokémon can use moves like Confuse Ray and Supersonic to disorient travelers. Golbat are known to suck blood from spelunkers foolish enough to sleep in their territory. It should go without saying that cavern explorers should remember to pack plenty of repels. Crobat for the most part are not aggressive to humans.","All of the Oddish family other than Bellossom can scatter poisonous pollen; Vileplume in particular use it as a method of hunting, burying themselves in the soil to disguise themselves as flowers before poisoning unwary prey. The other point of contention regarding this line is the putrid odor that Gloom are infamous for. It is a lesser known fact, however, that calm Gloom release next to no scent at all.","All of the Oddish family other than Bellossom can scatter poisonous pollen; Vileplume in particular use it as a method of hunting, burying themselves in the soil to disguise themselves as flowers before poisoning unwary prey. The other point of contention regarding this line is the putrid odor that Gloom are infamous for. It is a lesser known fact, however, that calm Gloom release next to no scent at all.","All of the Oddish family other than Bellossom can scatter poisonous pollen; Vileplume in particular use it as a method of hunting, burying themselves in the soil to disguise themselves as flowers before poisoning unwary prey. The other point of contention regarding this line is the putrid odor that Gloom are infamous for. It is a lesser known fact, however, that calm Gloom release next to no scent at all.","The main problem most people face from Paras and Parasect is how they can damage trees by sucking nutrients away from their roots. Parasect also sometimes can be dangerous because of their sharp claws. Since these Pokémon dislike light, the easiest way to keep them at bay is to simply install lanterns or other light sources near gardens (though it should be noted that lights may attract other pests, depending on one’s location).","The main problem most people face from Paras and Parasect is how they can damage trees by sucking nutrients away from their roots. Parasect also sometimes can be dangerous because of their sharp claws. Since these Pokémon dislike light, the easiest way to keep them at bay is to simply install lanterns or other light sources near gardens (though it should be noted that lights may attract other pests, depending on one’s location).","Venonat ooze poison all over their bodies. Additionally, their hairs are bristly and unpleasant to touch. Rubbing against a Venonat can result in moderate rashes, even if no poison was involved, because of this. Venomoth will release clouds of poisonous scales from their wings when threatened, with different colors resulting in different debilitations. Both stages can use moves like signal Beam to confuse foes.","Venonat ooze poison all over their bodies. Additionally, their hairs are bristly and unpleasant to touch. Rubbing against a Venonat can result in moderate rashes, even if no poison was involved, because of this. Venomoth will release clouds of poisonous scales from their wings when threatened, with different colors resulting in different debilitations. Both stages can use moves like signal Beam to confuse foes.","The Diglett line themselves pose virtually no danger to humans, another reason why they are so commonly employed on farmlands. However, their burrowing and creation of tunnels beneath the surface can potentially weaken swathes of land, compromising the stability of current and future structures above. The Pokémon will also use moves like Magnitude and Earthquake when angered, both of which can cause widespread damage.","The Diglett line themselves pose virtually no danger to humans, another reason why they are so commonly employed on farmlands. However, their burrowing and creation of tunnels beneath the surface can potentially weaken swathes of land, compromising the stability of current and future structures above. The Pokémon will also use moves like Magnitude and Earthquake when angered, both of which can cause widespread damage.","Meowth and Persian both have sharp claws, though they are withdrawn if the Pokémon aren’t feeling threatened. Meowth will steal shiny objects like jewelry and watches from strangers they pass on the street; they will stash these items in hoards somewhere near where they sleep. Trainers should familiarize themselves with the locations of their Meowth’s hoards should a valuable item ever go missing. Persian are known to lash out at their trainers when they displease them.","Meowth and Persian both have sharp claws, though they are withdrawn if the Pokémon aren’t feeling threatened. Meowth will steal shiny objects like jewelry and watches from strangers they pass on the street; they will stash these items in hoards somewhere near where they sleep. Trainers should familiarize themselves with the locations of their Meowth’s hoards should a valuable item ever go missing. Persian are known to lash out at their trainers when they displease them.","It should be noted that Psyduck cannot completely control their psychic abilities when they activate. The Pokémon seem to perform whatever task they were most concentrated on before their episodes begin, so trainers should keep their Psyduck as calm as possible when they begin showing signs of stronger headaches. Golduck pose little threat to humans, as they are not aggressive, but will defend themselves with Psychic-type attacks if threatened.","It should be noted that Psyduck cannot completely control their psychic abilities when they activate. The Pokémon seem to perform whatever task they were most concentrated on before their episodes begin, so trainers should keep their Psyduck as calm as possible when they begin showing signs of stronger headaches. Golduck pose little threat to humans, as they are not aggressive, but will defend themselves with Psychic-type attacks if threatened.","Of course, the primary danger regarding these Pokémon is their fits of rage. When angered, both Mankey and Primeape are unable to think clearly, so they may accidentally attack their allies. Trainers should take caution of the warning signs they signal before attacking: flared nostrils, heavy breathing, and tense shuddering all indicate that these Pokémon are about to lose their tempers.","Of course, the primary danger regarding these Pokémon is their fits of rage. When angered, both Mankey and Primeape are unable to think clearly, so they may accidentally attack their allies. Trainers should take caution of the warning signs they signal before attacking: flared nostrils, heavy breathing, and tense shuddering all indicate that these Pokémon are about to lose their tempers.","Neither Growlithe nor Arcanine pose significant threat to people, since they are so accustomed to being around them. With that said, however, both Pokémon are fiercely protective of their trainers, and may attack those that they believe are endangering them by biting or by using Fire-type attacks. It is the responsibility of Growlithe and Arcanine trainers to ensure their Pokémon that approaching strangers mean no harm and to keep them from lashing out.","Neither Growlithe nor Arcanine pose significant threat to people, since they are so accustomed to being around them. With that said, however, both Pokémon are fiercely protective of their trainers, and may attack those that they believe are endangering them by biting or by using Fire-type attacks. It is the responsibility of Growlithe and Arcanine trainers to ensure their Pokémon that approaching strangers mean no harm and to keep them from lashing out.","Staring into the swirls on the bellies of any stage of this line other than Politoed can put a person in a trancelike-state. No members of this family are aggressive or dangerous to humans, making them excellent Pokémon for beginning trainers. Poliwrath, however, are very strong, and can strike with powerful punches when agitated.","Staring into the swirls on the bellies of any stage of this line other than Politoed can put a person in a trancelike-state. No members of this family are aggressive or dangerous to humans, making them excellent Pokémon for beginning trainers. Poliwrath, however, are very strong, and can strike with powerful punches when agitated.","Staring into the swirls on the bellies of any stage of this line other than Politoed can put a person in a trancelike-state. No members of this family are aggressive or dangerous to humans, making them excellent Pokémon for beginning trainers. Poliwrath, however, are very strong, and can strike with powerful punches when agitated.","Abra never attack foes, instead choosing to teleport away; they pose no threat to even the most inexperienced trainers as a result. Neither Kadabra nor Alakazam will attack others if they are able to avoid it, though they will use moves like Psychic if they cannot find a peaceful way out. Kadabra emit curious alpha waves from their brains that can induce headaches in those nearby and cause electronics to malfunction. ","Abra never attack foes, instead choosing to teleport away; they pose no threat to even the most inexperienced trainers as a result. Neither Kadabra nor Alakazam will attack others if they are able to avoid it, though they will use moves like Psychic if they cannot find a peaceful way out. Kadabra emit curious alpha waves from their brains that can induce headaches in those nearby and cause electronics to malfunction. ","Abra never attack foes, instead choosing to teleport away; they pose no threat to even the most inexperienced trainers as a result. Neither Kadabra nor Alakazam will attack others if they are able to avoid it, though they will use moves like Psychic if they cannot find a peaceful way out. Kadabra emit curious alpha waves from their brains that can induce headaches in those nearby and cause electronics to malfunction. ","Machop and their evolutions are well-adapted to life with humans. They are often employed by companies that require heavy lifting, often seen working as movers or personal trainers. Intentional attacks by any member of this family are exceedingly rare; however, accidents sometimes occur when the Pokémon forget their own strength, but overall, they are very safe and easy to raise, perfect for new trainers.","Machop and their evolutions are well-adapted to life with humans. They are often employed by companies that require heavy lifting, often seen working as movers or personal trainers. Intentional attacks by any member of this family are exceedingly rare; however, accidents sometimes occur when the Pokémon forget their own strength, but overall, they are very safe and easy to raise, perfect for new trainers.","Machop and their evolutions are well-adapted to life with humans. They are often employed by companies that require heavy lifting, often seen working as movers or personal trainers. Intentional attacks by any member of this family are exceedingly rare; however, accidents sometimes occur when the Pokémon forget their own strength, but overall, they are very safe and easy to raise, perfect for new trainers.","Bellsprout can spit out a mildly corrosive acid that can leave burns on the skin. Weepinbell also can expel the same acid, but in larger volumes; wild Weepinbell may latch onto the hands of travelers and attempt to digest the limbs. Victreebel are extremely dangerous in the wild, as they are known to chase down and attempt to swallow humans. All members of the line are afraid of fire and will stay away from open flames. Carrying torches is advised when traveling in deep jungles.","Bellsprout can spit out a mildly corrosive acid that can leave burns on the skin. Weepinbell also can expel the same acid, but in larger volumes; wild Weepinbell may latch onto the hands of travelers and attempt to digest the limbs. Victreebel are extremely dangerous in the wild, as they are known to chase down and attempt to swallow humans. All members of the line are afraid of fire and will stay away from open flames. Carrying torches is advised when traveling in deep jungles.","Bellsprout can spit out a mildly corrosive acid that can leave burns on the skin. Weepinbell also can expel the same acid, but in larger volumes; wild Weepinbell may latch onto the hands of travelers and attempt to digest the limbs. Victreebel are extremely dangerous in the wild, as they are known to chase down and attempt to swallow humans. All members of the line are afraid of fire and will stay away from open flames. Carrying torches is advised when traveling in deep jungles.","The tentacles of these Pokémon are poisonous, even when the Pokémon themselves are unconscious. Their poison is not fatal to humans, however, and normally only cause pain, redness, and swelling. Given how common both Tentacool and Tentacruel are, this caveat is a blessing to trainers everywhere. Tentacruel are known to constrict victims with their tentacles and attempt to drag them to the bottom of the sea, though they normally don’t go after prey as large as people.","The tentacles of these Pokémon are poisonous, even when the Pokémon themselves are unconscious. Their poison is not fatal to humans, however, and normally only cause pain, redness, and swelling. Given how common both Tentacool and Tentacruel are, this caveat is a blessing to trainers everywhere. Tentacruel are known to constrict victims with their tentacles and attempt to drag them to the bottom of the sea, though they normally don’t go after prey as large as people.","These Pokémon certainly aren’t light, so being hit by a rolling Graveler or Golem would not be a painless experience. Parts of Geodude and Graveler may chip off while they are rolling (Golem have smoother bodies that don’t chip as easily), sending debris flying. Finally, all members of the line are capable of using Explosion, with their blast radii increasing with each subsequent evolution.","These Pokémon certainly aren’t light, so being hit by a rolling Graveler or Golem would not be a painless experience. Parts of Geodude and Graveler may chip off while they are rolling (Golem have smoother bodies that don’t chip as easily), sending debris flying. Finally, all members of the line are capable of using Explosion, with their blast radii increasing with each subsequent evolution.","These Pokémon certainly aren’t light, so being hit by a rolling Graveler or Golem would not be a painless experience. Parts of Geodude and Graveler may chip off while they are rolling (Golem have smoother bodies that don’t chip as easily), sending debris flying. Finally, all members of the line are capable of using Explosion, with their blast radii increasing with each subsequent evolution.","Wild Ponyta are skittish and will try to run away when approached. If cornered, they will instinctively rear their legs and kick backwards with their fiery legs. Rapidash are more confrontational, instead choosing to charge at foes with their flames and hooves. They will not attack unless threatened, however. Trained Ponyta and Rapidash can still burn strangers that try to touch them, especially if they have only learned to trust their trainers. ","Wild Ponyta are skittish and will try to run away when approached. If cornered, they will instinctively rear their legs and kick backwards with their fiery legs. Rapidash are more confrontational, instead choosing to charge at foes with their flames and hooves. They will not attack unless threatened, however. Trained Ponyta and Rapidash can still burn strangers that try to touch them, especially if they have only learned to trust their trainers. ","Since no Pokémon in this family are very active, they pose virtually no danger to humans. Though they possess psychic abilities of varying strength, they rarely exert the energy to utilize them except when in battle. Slowking are very friendly with humans, acting as mentors or gurus in some cases. It should be noted that the Shellder attached to these Pokémon can become defensive when their hosts (and food supplies) and endangered, however. ","Since no Pokémon in this family are very active, they pose virtually no danger to humans. Though they possess psychic abilities of varying strength, they rarely exert the energy to utilize them except when in battle. Slowking are very friendly with humans, acting as mentors or gurus in some cases. It should be noted that the Shellder attached to these Pokémon can become defensive when their hosts (and food supplies) and endangered, however. ","Other than the standard warnings of electrocution that come with most Electric-type Pokémon, the primary source of concern regarding these Pokémon stems not from their danger to humans, but rather to electronic devices. They are known to siphon electrical energy from power lines and generators. Additionally, the magnetic fields they generate can cause devices to malfunction. The radio waves Magneton emit can dry the air and cause earaches in some people. ","Other than the standard warnings of electrocution that come with most Electric-type Pokémon, the primary source of concern regarding these Pokémon stems not from their danger to humans, but rather to electronic devices. They are known to siphon electrical energy from power lines and generators. Additionally, the magnetic fields they generate can cause devices to malfunction. The radio waves Magneton emit can dry the air and cause earaches in some people. ","Farfetch’d are rather harmless Pokémon--unfortunately, this was a large reason why they were so easy to hunt and are so endangered today. Still, they are very skilled at defending themselves with their leeks, and seem uncannily perceptive when seeking out the weak spots of opponents. Though normally noble and honorable opponents, Farfetch’d will not hesitate to strike with “cheap shots” if their leeks are in danger.","Doduo are best described as “eccentric”--they act strangely and unpredictably at times as their two heads collaborate alone; people should give them a wide berth in the wild. Dodrio can be aggressive, and are very fast, known to chase travelers and even cars. Both Pokémon are very raucous. Doduo never are fully asleep since one head is awake, and as such, they always make noise. Dodrio will let out a loud call at the same time every day--usually very early in the morning.","Doduo are best described as “eccentric”--they act strangely and unpredictably at times as their two heads collaborate alone; people should give them a wide berth in the wild. Dodrio can be aggressive, and are very fast, known to chase travelers and even cars. Both Pokémon are very raucous. Doduo never are fully asleep since one head is awake, and as such, they always make noise. Dodrio will let out a loud call at the same time every day--usually very early in the morning.","Seel and Dewgong are both playful Pokémon that almost never harm humans. The most dangerous things about them are likely their horns. However, they rarely use them to attack, as their primary purpose is to poke breathing holes into ice floes. Though these Pokémon enjoy swimming with friends and may invite their trainers to swim with them, it is not advised for people to get into the freezing water with them without proper equipment.","Seel and Dewgong are both playful Pokémon that almost never harm humans. The most dangerous things about them are likely their horns. However, they rarely use them to attack, as their primary purpose is to poke breathing holes into ice floes. Though these Pokémon enjoy swimming with friends and may invite their trainers to swim with them, it is not advised for people to get into the freezing water with them without proper equipment.","Untrained Grimer and Muk should never be touched without proper protection, because they almost always carry an astonishing number and variety of infectious, normally water-borne pathogens. The trails they leave behind will be inhospitable to life for long periods of time, though trained Pokémon can more easily control their expulsion of toxins. Both wild and caught members of the line smell completely rancid, however.","Untrained Grimer and Muk should never be touched without proper protection, because they almost always carry an astonishing number and variety of infectious, normally water-borne pathogens. The trails they leave behind will be inhospitable to life for long periods of time, though trained Pokémon can more easily control their expulsion of toxins. Both wild and caught members of the line smell completely rancid, however.","Shellder are known to clamp onto the finger and toes of divers that try to touch them, so getting too close to wild individuals is not advised. Their poison has little effect on humans other than a slight numbing effect, however. Cloyster have enough clamping power to pulverize bones and can shoot spikes at speeds high enough to pierce the hulls of boats. They are rare in the wild and ignore humans, however, so they are rarely a problem for most people.","Shellder are known to clamp onto the finger and toes of divers that try to touch them, so getting too close to wild individuals is not advised. Their poison has little effect on humans other than a slight numbing effect, however. Cloyster have enough clamping power to pulverize bones and can shoot spikes at speeds high enough to pierce the hulls of boats. They are rare in the wild and ignore humans, however, so they are rarely a problem for most people.","Though the Gastly line can suck out the life force of any living being, they rarely go after humans; instead, they play pranks on people to instill fear and paranoia. Gastly can envelop victims in their poisonous gas, while all stages can lick foes to paralyze them. They will sometimes play tricks on their trainers and fellow Pokémon simply for fun, though they aren’t maliciously intended.","Though the Gastly line can suck out the life force of any living being, they rarely go after humans; instead, they play pranks on people to instill fear and paranoia. Gastly can envelop victims in their poisonous gas, while all stages can lick foes to paralyze them. They will sometimes play tricks on their trainers and fellow Pokémon simply for fun, though they aren’t maliciously intended.","Though the Gastly line can suck out the life force of any living being, they rarely go after humans; instead, they play pranks on people to instill fear and paranoia. Gastly can envelop victims in their poisonous gas, while all stages can lick foes to paralyze them. They will sometimes play tricks on their trainers and fellow Pokémon simply for fun, though they aren’t maliciously intended.","Neither of these Pokémon are particularly aggressive, though Steelix are slightly more confrontational than their pre-evolutions. These Pokémon are commonly encountered in subterranean environments, where their large statures can sometimes unintentionally make them hazards, especially in tight tunnels. Their tunneling is also known to cause earthquakes and weaken foundations when too many intersecting tunnels are burrowed underneath structures.","Drowzee are basically harmless to both people and other Pokémon, since they feed exclusively on dreams. They may put threats to sleep before fleeing, however. Hypno are more problematic, as they are known to hypnotize young children into following them into forests for them to feed on dreams for extended periods of time. Though the children are left unharmed, the Hypno also generally don’t bother returning the children back home after they awaken.","Drowzee are basically harmless to both people and other Pokémon, since they feed exclusively on dreams. They may put threats to sleep before fleeing, however. Hypno are more problematic, as they are known to hypnotize young children into following them into forests for them to feed on dreams for extended periods of time. Though the children are left unharmed, the Hypno also generally don’t bother returning the children back home after they awaken.","Both Pokémon have sharp claws that can easily cut flesh. Kingler can crush bones in their larger claws, and can simply swing them around to slam into threats with powerful force. Their smaller claws are weaker, but can still inflict respectable damage. Krabby will instinctively attempt to dig beneath themselves when frightened. If on a carpet or other similar surface, they may damage the material while attempting to dig into it.","Both Pokémon have sharp claws that can easily cut flesh. Kingler can crush bones in their larger claws, and can simply swing them around to slam into threats with powerful force. Their smaller claws are weaker, but can still inflict respectable damage. Krabby will instinctively attempt to dig beneath themselves when frightened. If on a carpet or other similar surface, they may damage the material while attempting to dig into it.","The general dangers regarding electricity also apply when dealing with these Pokémon. Their electrical energy is not the biggest concern when dealing with Voltorb and Electrode, however. TO put it simply, inexperienced trainers should give these Pokémon as much space as possible. They will sometimes explode seemingly at random, so even people with training in handling Voltorb and Electrode should be cautious around them.","The general dangers regarding electricity also apply when dealing with these Pokémon. Their electrical energy is not the biggest concern when dealing with Voltorb and Electrode, however. TO put it simply, inexperienced trainers should give these Pokémon as much space as possible. They will sometimes explode seemingly at random, so even people with training in handling Voltorb and Electrode should be cautious around them.","Exeggcute may attack with Psychic-type attacks when threatened, but otherwise tend to avoid humans. Exeggutor are very docile and friendly Pokémon that seem to enjoy the company of people and other Pokémon. However, it should be noted that attacking one Exeggutor in a herd will anger the entire herd and cause them to stampede. Though Exeggcute’s fragility make them ill-suited for young trainers, the friendliness of Exeggutor make them much better candidates.","Exeggcute may attack with Psychic-type attacks when threatened, but otherwise tend to avoid humans. Exeggutor are very docile and friendly Pokémon that seem to enjoy the company of people and other Pokémon. However, it should be noted that attacking one Exeggutor in a herd will anger the entire herd and cause them to stampede. Though Exeggcute’s fragility make them ill-suited for young trainers, the friendliness of Exeggutor make them much better candidates.","Cubone are not antagonistic towards people, as they prefer to remain as isolated from other beings as possible. Wild Marowak, on the other hand, are considerably more confrontational. They will not hesitate to brutally beat or even kill those that they perceive as threats. With that being said, however, they will entirely ignore people and Pokémon that don’t bother them.","Cubone are not antagonistic towards people, as they prefer to remain as isolated from other beings as possible. Wild Marowak, on the other hand, are considerably more confrontational. They will not hesitate to brutally beat or even kill those that they perceive as threats. With that being said, however, they will entirely ignore people and Pokémon that don’t bother them.","The Tyrogue family is well-suited for life among people, and are a common sight in dojos and gyms. Their main source of concern is their superb fighting techniques. However, they are just as skilled in restraining themselves in combat, so people should have no problem fighting alongside or even against them in training.","The Tyrogue family is well-suited for life among people, and are a common sight in dojos and gyms. Their main source of concern is their superb fighting techniques. However, they are just as skilled in restraining themselves in combat, so people should have no problem fighting alongside or even against them in training.","Both Pokémon will lick foreign objects to learn about them, as they retain information based on tastes and textures. Lickitung saliva can cause numbing that will wear off in a few minutes, but Lickilicky saliva can cause numbing or even rashes that likely won’t go away without medical treatment; neither cause any serious side effects, however (except in the case of an allergic reaction). Lickilicky are known to constrict prey with their tongues, but almost never try this tactic on humans.","The toxic gases Koffing and Weezing are unavoidable products of their diets, unlike the poisonous trails of Grimer or Muk; they can cause coughing and sneezing in even small amounts. Consequently, gas masks or air purifiers are a must when raising these Pokémon. As mentioned above, flames can cause them to explode. Their gases are easily combustible, so one should never attempt to light anything in a room these Pokémon were recently in without proper ventilation.","The toxic gases Koffing and Weezing are unavoidable products of their diets, unlike the poisonous trails of Grimer or Muk; they can cause coughing and sneezing in even small amounts. Consequently, gas masks or air purifiers are a must when raising these Pokémon. As mentioned above, flames can cause them to explode. Their gases are easily combustible, so one should never attempt to light anything in a room these Pokémon were recently in without proper ventilation.","All members of this line are aggressive, but Rhyhorn are by far the most belligerent, charging on sight of unfamiliar objects. Their horns are sharp enough to pierce diamond; though trained racing Rhyhorn often have them dulled, their heavy weights still make them dangerous when angered. Rhydon and Rhyperior can also sweep foes with their heavy tails when angered, and can easily break bones with well-placed swings; luckily, they usually only attack when angered.","All members of this line are aggressive, but Rhyhorn are by far the most belligerent, charging on sight of unfamiliar objects. Their horns are sharp enough to pierce diamond; though trained racing Rhyhorn often have them dulled, their heavy weights still make them dangerous when angered. Rhydon and Rhyperior can also sweep foes with their heavy tails when angered, and can easily break bones with well-placed swings; luckily, they usually only attack when angered.","These Pokémon are practically the opposite of dangerous, considering that they are staples in hospitals and Pokémon Centers in multiple regions. None of them are aggressive or territorial in the least. Trainers should note, however, that Happiny are baby Pokémon and can be moody from time to time. They are stronger than they look and may throw their stones during tantrums. They are also known to unwittingly walk between the feet of people and accidentally trip them.","Obviously, the most pressing dangers these Pokémon possess are their copious vines. Trainers should stay wary in dense jungles, as these Pokémon often hide in bushes to snare passerby. Though Tangela are more annoying than threatening, they can still be dangerous if they happen to constrict the neck (though they more often go for the feet); Tangrowth are more hazardous, but will not hold on to large prey that struggle too much and will instead break off their vines.","It cannot be emphasized enough how protective mother Kangaskhan are of their offspring. They will risk their lives to defend their children from what they perceive to be threats. Travelers should give these Pokémon a wide berth. It should also be noted that Kangaskhan babies playing out in the open normally aren’t abandoned; their mothers are often hiding just a short distance away, keeping close watch on their children.","All members of this family will spit ink when threatened, which, though nontoxic, can stain skin and fabric if not removed quickly. Seadra spines leak muscle-paralyzing poison. They can be particularly dangerous for swimmers, as their poison acts quickly and has led to the drownings of a number of victims. Both Seadra and Kingdra can generate whirlpools; Kingdra are particularly active during storms, and have been known to inadvertently suck down ships while catching food.","All members of this family will spit ink when threatened, which, though nontoxic, can stain skin and fabric if not removed quickly. Seadra spines leak muscle-paralyzing poison. They can be particularly dangerous for swimmers, as their poison acts quickly and has led to the drownings of a number of victims. Both Seadra and Kingdra can generate whirlpools; Kingdra are particularly active during storms, and have been known to inadvertently suck down ships while catching food.","Though many people are captivated by the bright and vivid colorations of these Pokémon, they should not be kept in domestic aquariums by amateur hobbyists. Not only are their horns capable of shattering glass with ease, but their leaping abilities allow them to easily escape most commercially-available tanks. Their horns can maim unwary swimmers. These Pokémon are only aggressive in the autumn, however, when they breed and subsequently defend their eggs.","Though many people are captivated by the bright and vivid colorations of these Pokémon, they should not be kept in domestic aquariums by amateur hobbyists. Not only are their horns capable of shattering glass with ease, but their leaping abilities allow them to easily escape most commercially-available tanks. Their horns can maim unwary swimmers. These Pokémon are only aggressive in the autumn, however, when they breed and subsequently defend their eggs.","The Staryu line poses virtually no danger to humans; wild individuals seem apathetic towards people, sometimes even allowing their limbs to be touched without reacting. Attempting to touch their cores, however, will elicit fierce responses. They will begin blinking their cores while spinning quickly to swim away, sometimes injuring swimmers with their whirling as they attempt to flee.","The Staryu line poses virtually no danger to humans; wild individuals seem apathetic towards people, sometimes even allowing their limbs to be touched without reacting. Attempting to touch their cores, however, will elicit fierce responses. They will begin blinking their cores while spinning quickly to swim away, sometimes injuring swimmers with their whirling as they attempt to flee.","Living alongside humans, neither Mime Jr. nor Mr. Mime pose much of a threat to people. Mime Jr. are known to target people they sense are benevolent when performing for food, a skill that makes them popular among beggars. Mr. Mime will become angry if their performances are interrupted, slapping offenders with their huge hands. Their invisible walls can also be nuisances in crowded streets, though most Mr. Mime know that blocking traffic won’t help them earn food.","Scyther are aggressive and dangerous Pokémon, particularly because they are usually found in packs. Even lone Scyther seem to be more aggressive than social ones. Scizor are more territorial than confrontational, and will threaten intruders with the eyes on their pincers before lunging to attack. Though Scyther tend to be more threatening to humans, both Pokémon should be given wide berths in the wild to avoid angering them.","When uncomfortably hot, Smoochum will become very cranky. Spicy foods will cause these Pokémon great distress, as their lips are particularly sensitive and have many nerve endings.","All Pokémon in this line can deliver high-voltage shocks. Trainers should never stick their hands between an Elekid’s prongs, as an electric current will run through them whenever it charges. Electabuzz and Electivire are aggressive and will sometimes give chase if threatened. Touching an Electabuzz’s or Electivire’s horns or the latter’s twin tails is also not recommended. These Pokémon can also cause power outages if they drain too much electricity from a generator.","As Pokémon that can expel searing-hot flames, trainers should naturally be extremely careful around them. Luckily, they generally inhabit the craters of active volcanoes, where few trainers would be able to venture anyways. Additionally, they are not aggressive or even territorial. Despite this, travelers should give any stray individuals they come across a wide berth, as both Magmar and Magmortar can radiate significant heat even while standing still.","Wild Pinsir tend to only go after prey they believe they can easily take down. However, they are easily provoked, and will not hesitate to chase travelers who accidentally disturb them. One should never run from a Pinsir, as they will quickly follow in pursuit. Attempting to appear larger and more intimidating is instead a more effective maneuver. Pinsir can easily climb trees, so seeking refuge in the treetops is also not advised.","Wild Tauros are aggressive and will stampede in herds towards foreign threats. Both wild and domesticated Pokémon are angered by the color red and will charge on sight towards anything of this color. They only charge in straight lines, however, so they are relatively easy to avoid. Lone Tauros are known to tackle down trees or even power lines if they are unable to find anything else to headbutt in their spare time.","As one would expect, Magikarp are arguably one of the least threatening Pokémon to be around. They essentially pose no threat to people. On the other hand, Gyarados are one of the most dangerous Pokémon the majority of trainers will encounter. They are brutal and destructive, rampaging whenever angered. Inexperienced trainers should never confront an enraged Gyarados; instead, it is advised that one should run away as far as possible from the water’s edge.","As one would expect, Magikarp are arguably one of the least threatening Pokémon to be around. They essentially pose no threat to people. On the other hand, Gyarados are one of the most dangerous Pokémon the majority of trainers will encounter. They are brutal and destructive, rampaging whenever angered. Inexperienced trainers should never confront an enraged Gyarados; instead, it is advised that one should run away as far as possible from the water’s edge.","These Pokémon are very docile and benevolent. There have been no recorded cases of Lapras, wild or trained, intentionally attacking a person without being provoked. Even riding on a Lapras’s back is a relatively safe method of transportation, as they always keep a close eye on their passengers and will quickly come to the rescue of those who accidentally fall off. ","Ditto are not actively hostile towards people. They prefer to hide from threats rather than confronting them. With that being said, however, they have the potential to be anything from complete non-threats to life-threatening dangers depending on what they transform into. For example, there has been at least one reported incident of a spooked Ditto turning into a spinning blade in the middle of a crowded stadium.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Neither Porygon nor Porygon2 pose any particular threat to humans in the real world. Famously, there was an incident in which a Porygon in a computer caused the screen to flash violently, triggering seizures in the children watching it. The bug has never reoccured, though the event scared much of the public away from training Porygon. Porygon-Z can be uncontrollable when glitching and may attack recklessly while doing so.","Omanyte are intelligent, but quiet, Pokémon that most trainers should have little problem with. Though they appear menacing, Omastar are similarly perceptive; however, they are quicker to attack when confronted, firing their spikes from a distance. They will watch approaching threats intently before shooting to discern their intentions. As long as swimmers don’t make sudden movements, they are unlikely to trigger these Pokémon to attack.","Omanyte are intelligent, but quiet, Pokémon that most trainers should have little problem with. Though they appear menacing, Omastar are similarly perceptive; however, they are quicker to attack when confronted, firing their spikes from a distance. They will watch approaching threats intently before shooting to discern their intentions. As long as swimmers don’t make sudden movements, they are unlikely to trigger these Pokémon to attack.","Kabuto are not picky parasites, and will latch onto whatever suitable victims swim by. They are known to aim for the face; since these Pokémon are extinct in the wild, however, Kabuto attacks are not common. Kabutops, similarly, are not seen in the wild. Though vicious and aggressive, any Kabutops a trainer may come across on his or her journey is likely domesticated, and as such should not pose much of a problem.","Kabuto are not picky parasites, and will latch onto whatever suitable victims swim by. They are known to aim for the face; since these Pokémon are extinct in the wild, however, Kabuto attacks are not common. Kabutops, similarly, are not seen in the wild. Though vicious and aggressive, any Kabutops a trainer may come across on his or her journey is likely domesticated, and as such should not pose much of a problem.","Aerodactyl are not found in the wild, so dangers regarding these Pokémon for the most part pertain to newly-resurrected, feral individuals. These Pokémon are not particularly territorial. However, they will keep a close eye on foreign intruders that approach them, and will dive at them if they come too close to scare them off. They will attack threats that do not back off after their warning dives.","Munchlax will squeeze themselves through open windows and pet doors to make their ways into houses, where they will proceed to eat everything edible that they can find. Snorlax are infamous for falling asleep in the middle of pathways, blocking roads. They can be awoken peacefully by the sound of Poké Flutes. Trainers are advised to not attempt to wake them in other ways, as they will become very aggressive when disturbed through other methods.","","","","Dratini are very timid and will hide when confronted; they will not even attack when threatened. Dragonair also dislike conflict. However, they will defend themselves when cornered. In addition to being able to utilize a number of Dragon-type techniques, these Pokémon can also alter the weather to create storms and buy time to escape. Dragonite are very benevolent, but will go on destructive rampages when they are angered (though luckily, it takes a lot to enrage them).","Dratini are very timid and will hide when confronted; they will not even attack when threatened. Dragonair also dislike conflict. However, they will defend themselves when cornered. In addition to being able to utilize a number of Dragon-type techniques, these Pokémon can also alter the weather to create storms and buy time to escape. Dragonite are very benevolent, but will go on destructive rampages when they are angered (though luckily, it takes a lot to enrage them).","Dratini are very timid and will hide when confronted; they will not even attack when threatened. Dragonair also dislike conflict. However, they will defend themselves when cornered. In addition to being able to utilize a number of Dragon-type techniques, these Pokémon can also alter the weather to create storms and buy time to escape. Dragonite are very benevolent, but will go on destructive rampages when they are angered (though luckily, it takes a lot to enrage them).","","","The Chikorita family is docile and a great choice for most beginning, inexperienced trainers. However, it should be noted that the fragrances members of this family emit can sometimes be overpowering for those with sensitive senses of smell. The fragrance Bayleef emit can make those around them act not only more energetically, but also more aggressively. Meganium’s anthers will seasonally release pollen that can trigger allergies in some individuals.","The Chikorita family is docile and a great choice for most beginning, inexperienced trainers. However, it should be noted that the fragrances members of this family emit can sometimes be overpowering for those with sensitive senses of smell. The fragrance Bayleef emit can make those around them act not only more energetically, but also more aggressively. Meganium’s anthers will seasonally release pollen that can trigger allergies in some individuals.","The Chikorita family is docile and a great choice for most beginning, inexperienced trainers. However, it should be noted that the fragrances members of this family emit can sometimes be overpowering for those with sensitive senses of smell. The fragrance Bayleef emit can make those around them act not only more energetically, but also more aggressively. Meganium’s anthers will seasonally release pollen that can trigger allergies in some individuals.","Cyndaquil will curl up into balls and flare their backs when scared, an occurrence that their trainers will witness very often. For this reason, holding a nervous Cyndaquil without proper protection is not a good idea. Quilava are also cautious and quick to attack new stimuli with their flames. Typhlosion are incredibly aggressive and will attack at the drop of a hat, so trainers should stay far away from the rare individual they may come across during their travels.","Cyndaquil will curl up into balls and flare their backs when scared, an occurrence that their trainers will witness very often. For this reason, holding a nervous Cyndaquil without proper protection is not a good idea. Quilava are also cautious and quick to attack new stimuli with their flames. Typhlosion are incredibly aggressive and will attack at the drop of a hat, so trainers should stay far away from the rare individual they may come across during their travels.","Cyndaquil will curl up into balls and flare their backs when scared, an occurrence that their trainers will witness very often. For this reason, holding a nervous Cyndaquil without proper protection is not a good idea. Quilava are also cautious and quick to attack new stimuli with their flames. Typhlosion are incredibly aggressive and will attack at the drop of a hat, so trainers should stay far away from the rare individual they may come across during their travels.","Totodile are very rambunctious Pokémon that love playing. Unfortunately, their playing almost always involves biting, so trainers should wear thick protection when first training these Pokémon; they will also bite to investigate novel things. Croconaw are not particularly aggressive, but will attack if they feel threatened. Feraligatr are territorial and may briefly chase travelers that encroach on their land, but they normally cease their pursuits once their threats have fled.","Totodile are very rambunctious Pokémon that love playing. Unfortunately, their playing almost always involves biting, so trainers should wear thick protection when first training these Pokémon; they will also bite to investigate novel things. Croconaw are not particularly aggressive, but will attack if they feel threatened. Feraligatr are territorial and may briefly chase travelers that encroach on their land, but they normally cease their pursuits once their threats have fled.","Totodile are very rambunctious Pokémon that love playing. Unfortunately, their playing almost always involves biting, so trainers should wear thick protection when first training these Pokémon; they will also bite to investigate novel things. Croconaw are not particularly aggressive, but will attack if they feel threatened. Feraligatr are territorial and may briefly chase travelers that encroach on their land, but they normally cease their pursuits once their threats have fled.","These Pokémon pose little danger to humans, preferring to flee from confrontation instead of attacking. Spooked Furret are known to run between the legs of their attackers while fleeing in hopes of tripping them and buying themselves time to escape. It should also be noted that owning clothing or other goods made of Furret fur is illegal, though it is unlikely that a person would come across such a product without specifically seeking it out. ","These Pokémon pose little danger to humans, preferring to flee from confrontation instead of attacking. Spooked Furret are known to run between the legs of their attackers while fleeing in hopes of tripping them and buying themselves time to escape. It should also be noted that owning clothing or other goods made of Furret fur is illegal, though it is unlikely that a person would come across such a product without specifically seeking it out. ","Neither Hoothoot nor Noctowl pose much of a threat to humans. Because of their large, glowing eyes and tendency to not blink for long periods of time, flocks of Hoothoot have been known to induce stress and paranoia in lost forest travelers, staring endlessly at them for hours at a time. Noctowl are hunters, but largely ignore humans. They will attack viciously with their sharp talons if they feel their nests and eggs are being threatened, however.","Neither Hoothoot nor Noctowl pose much of a threat to humans. Because of their large, glowing eyes and tendency to not blink for long periods of time, flocks of Hoothoot have been known to induce stress and paranoia in lost forest travelers, staring endlessly at them for hours at a time. Noctowl are hunters, but largely ignore humans. They will attack viciously with their sharp talons if they feel their nests and eggs are being threatened, however.","The Ledyba family is docile with reported harmful incidents involving humans at a minimum. Angering a Ledyba swarm is difficult because they are quick to fly away when threatened. Ledian are more defensive and may strike foes with punches if cornered, but also prefer to flee if able to. These Pokémon can be nuisances to amateur gardeners, as large swarms of them can consume most of the standing plants in a plot with ease.","The Ledyba family is docile with reported harmful incidents involving humans at a minimum. Angering a Ledyba swarm is difficult because they are quick to fly away when threatened. Ledian are more defensive and may strike foes with punches if cornered, but also prefer to flee if able to. These Pokémon can be nuisances to amateur gardeners, as large swarms of them can consume most of the standing plants in a plot with ease.","Spinarak are poisonous, but not deadly to humans. Numbness and pain are normal symptoms following a Spinarak bite, and while treatment can speed up the healing process, most people can recover without external help. Ariados venom, however, can be quickly fatal; carrying Antidotes is strongly advised when traveling in areas where Ariados are known to dwell, particularly at night. Though they do not actively seek out humans, they will attack if one enters their territory.","Spinarak are poisonous, but not deadly to humans. Numbness and pain are normal symptoms following a Spinarak bite, and while treatment can speed up the healing process, most people can recover without external help. Ariados venom, however, can be quickly fatal; carrying Antidotes is strongly advised when traveling in areas where Ariados are known to dwell, particularly at night. Though they do not actively seek out humans, they will attack if one enters their territory.","Virtually all trainers are familiar with how annoying Zubat and Golbat can be while exploring caves. In addition to being poisonous, both Pokémon can use moves like Confuse Ray and Supersonic to disorient travelers. Golbat are known to suck blood from spelunkers foolish enough to sleep in their territory. It should go without saying that cavern explorers should remember to pack plenty of repels. Crobat for the most part are not aggressive to humans.","Neither Chinchou nor Lanturn are aggressive Pokémon; Lanturn, in fact, seem to be very friendly towards people, sometimes lighting the way for boats at night or scaring hostile Pokémon away from stranded sailors. Both Pokémon wield electrical powers of moderate voltage, however, that can be potentially dangerous to humans. Because of the conductivity of seawater, swimming alongside these Pokémon is ill-advised.","Neither Chinchou nor Lanturn are aggressive Pokémon; Lanturn, in fact, seem to be very friendly towards people, sometimes lighting the way for boats at night or scaring hostile Pokémon away from stranded sailors. Both Pokémon wield electrical powers of moderate voltage, however, that can be potentially dangerous to humans. Because of the conductivity of seawater, swimming alongside these Pokémon is ill-advised.","All members of the Pichu line are capable of discharging painful, though not usually fatal, voltages of electricity. Pikachu and Raichu will shock threats with only enough voltage to stun them--however, they are easily spooked, so trainers should be careful when approaching them. Touching their cheek pouches will also result in shocks. More caution should be taken with Pichu, who cannot control their electricity; luckily, their jolts tend to be milder than those of their evolutions. Forests with many Pikachu are more prone to thunderstorms due to the","Clefairy are known for their kleptomania, as they seem to steal ordinary objects like keys, flash drives, and calculators for no discernible reason--even from their trainers. Valuable objects should be kept out of reach or locked up in safes. These Pokémon are very timid and hate conflict; however, they may defend themselves with Metronome when threatened, which by nature makes them extremely unpredictable and potentially very dangerous.","Overall, the Igglybuff line is a great choice for starting trainers because their rubbery bodies allow them to bounce back from wear and tear and their affinities for people make them easy to raise. They pose little threat to humans because of their light weights. Trainers should be wary of Jigglypuff, however; falling asleep during one of their singing performances will anger them and trigger them to slap their audiences awake.","There have been no documented cases of these Pokémon harming or even attempting to harm humans. At most, the crying of young Togepi can be very irritating for those nearby, as the sound’s frequency is rather close to that of the crying of human children. In an unpleasant cycle, the annoyance of those around them makes Togepi cry even more. Overdosing on joy dust has been known to trigger effects similar to those achieved through consumption of MDMA.","There have been no documented cases of these Pokémon harming or even attempting to harm humans. At most, the crying of young Togepi can be very irritating for those nearby, as the sound’s frequency is rather close to that of the crying of human children. In an unpleasant cycle, the annoyance of those around them makes Togepi cry even more. Overdosing on joy dust has been known to trigger effects similar to those achieved through consumption of MDMA.","Both of these Pokémon don’t seem to react at all to the presence of humans, though Natu can be a bit curious at times. They will often hop on the shoes of travelers as if they were tree roots. There have been reports of explorers going insane from being endlessly watched by flocks of unblinking Natu. The interpretations of messages from Xatu seem to cause more harm than the Pokémon themselves, with one famous (false) prediction of the apocalypse in the 21st century triggering all sorts of odd behavior in believers.","Both of these Pokémon don’t seem to react at all to the presence of humans, though Natu can be a bit curious at times. They will often hop on the shoes of travelers as if they were tree roots. There have been reports of explorers going insane from being endlessly watched by flocks of unblinking Natu. The interpretations of messages from Xatu seem to cause more harm than the Pokémon themselves, with one famous (false) prediction of the apocalypse in the 21st century triggering all sorts of odd behavior in believers.","Commonly seen at petting zoos, domesticated Mareep pose practically no threat to humans when discharged. Even wild individuals are docile, if a bit more skittish than their trained relatives. Touching the wool of a Mareep or Flaaffy without knowing how charged it is can lead to a nasty shock, however. The light that Ampharos emit from the bulbs on their tails can be blinding if looked at directly.","Commonly seen at petting zoos, domesticated Mareep pose practically no threat to humans when discharged. Even wild individuals are docile, if a bit more skittish than their trained relatives. Touching the wool of a Mareep or Flaaffy without knowing how charged it is can lead to a nasty shock, however. The light that Ampharos emit from the bulbs on their tails can be blinding if looked at directly.","Commonly seen at petting zoos, domesticated Mareep pose practically no threat to humans when discharged. Even wild individuals are docile, if a bit more skittish than their trained relatives. Touching the wool of a Mareep or Flaaffy without knowing how charged it is can lead to a nasty shock, however. The light that Ampharos emit from the bulbs on their tails can be blinding if looked at directly.","Commonly seen at petting zoos, domesticated Mareep pose practically no threat to humans when discharged. Even wild individuals are docile, if a bit more skittish than their trained relatives. Touching the wool of a Mareep or Flaaffy without knowing how charged it is can lead to a nasty shock, however. The light that Ampharos emit from the bulbs on their tails can be blinding if looked at directly.","These Pokémon are very friendly both to other Pokémon and to humans; wild Azumarill will even go out of their way to rescue drowning individuals. Azurill travel by swinging their tails around like lassos, and can cause small bruises if they accidentally hit someone. A single crying Azurill can also cause an entire group of them to cry, becoming very shrill and grating. Azumarill are surprisingly strong for their size and should not be underestimated because of their friendly natures.","These Pokémon are very friendly both to other Pokémon and to humans; wild Azumarill will even go out of their way to rescue drowning individuals. Azurill travel by swinging their tails around like lassos, and can cause small bruises if they accidentally hit someone. A single crying Azurill can also cause an entire group of them to cry, becoming very shrill and grating. Azumarill are surprisingly strong for their size and should not be underestimated because of their friendly natures.","Approaching or attempting to uproot hiding Bonsly from the soil is a bad idea. When frightened, they will throw their heavy bodies at their attackers, which can result in broken bones. Sudowoodo will also charge blindly in any direction to escape water. Though easily scared, these Pokémon are otherwise rather docile and are not aggressive towards humans; most injuries involving them result from unwary gardeners watering them and being tackled as they flee.","Staring into the swirls on the bellies of any stage of this line other than Politoed can put a person in a trancelike-state. No members of this family are aggressive or dangerous to humans, making them excellent Pokémon for beginning trainers. Poliwrath, however, are very strong, and can strike with powerful punches when agitated.","None of these Pokémon are aggressive or actively harmful to humans; they dislike conflict and prefer to float away on the wind instead of attacking. Jumpluff spores can trigger allergies in some people, which can get particularly bad during their mating season. Hoppip greens are edible, but are incredibly bitter unless they are boiled first. If cornered or trapped, these Pokémon can also release a number of powder-based moves to scare off opponents.","None of these Pokémon are aggressive or actively harmful to humans; they dislike conflict and prefer to float away on the wind instead of attacking. Jumpluff spores can trigger allergies in some people, which can get particularly bad during their mating season. Hoppip greens are edible, but are incredibly bitter unless they are boiled first. If cornered or trapped, these Pokémon can also release a number of powder-based moves to scare off opponents.","None of these Pokémon are aggressive or actively harmful to humans; they dislike conflict and prefer to float away on the wind instead of attacking. Jumpluff spores can trigger allergies in some people, which can get particularly bad during their mating season. Hoppip greens are edible, but are incredibly bitter unless they are boiled first. If cornered or trapped, these Pokémon can also release a number of powder-based moves to scare off opponents.","These Pokémon are normally friendly, if a bit mischievous. They may sometimes steal the hats of travelers passing underneath for fun, but will usually return them once they become bored. They will toss the husks and shells of fruits and nuts that they shuck aimlessly, sometimes hitting unwary people and Pokémon below. Trainers should be wary that angering a single Pokémon will anger the whole colony, making all of the members irate and aggressive.","Sunkern are harmless to humans; in fact, because of their frailty and small size, people are generally more of a danger to them than vice versa. During warm summers after cold winters, populations of these Pokémon can explode and be a temporary nuisance as large numbers of them swarm about. Sunflora are friendly Pokémon, but can unleash powerful sun-based attacks like Solar Beam if angered (most commonly by an unwary being blocking their access to sunlight).","Sunkern are harmless to humans; in fact, because of their frailty and small size, people are generally more of a danger to them than vice versa. During warm summers after cold winters, populations of these Pokémon can explode and be a temporary nuisance as large numbers of them swarm about. Sunflora are friendly Pokémon, but can unleash powerful sun-based attacks like Solar Beam if angered (most commonly by an unwary being blocking their access to sunlight).","Yanma can be a bit curious when it comes to humans, and are usually only aggressive towards other Yanma. They should not be trifled with, however, as they can create shock waves that can permanently damage hearing and shatter glass. Yanmega, on the other hand, are aggressive; their shock waves can break bones and their jaws can easily tear off limbs. These Pokémon are strong enough to carry away adult humans and should be treated with extreme caution.","Wooper are coated in a poisonous film that can cause searing pain upon contact. The film leaves no other lasting effects, but is nevertheless unpleasant to touch. They lose their poison upon evolution. They are very friendly Pokémon, however, and will readily splash about with new people and Pokémon. Quagsire are also incredibly docile, though they seem to ignore strangers or stare at them instead of engage with them; they are very difficult to provoke or anger.","Wooper are coated in a poisonous film that can cause searing pain upon contact. The film leaves no other lasting effects, but is nevertheless unpleasant to touch. They lose their poison upon evolution. They are very friendly Pokémon, however, and will readily splash about with new people and Pokémon. Quagsire are also incredibly docile, though they seem to ignore strangers or stare at them instead of engage with them; they are very difficult to provoke or anger.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Murkrow are often seen as bad omens; they are known to steal objects from travelers in forests and lead them astray. They will often try to steal shiny items from people, including rings, necklaces, and other forms of jewelry. If threatened, Murkrow will attack in flocks with their beaks and talons. Though Honchkrow are capable of being very threatening alone, they rarely attack; instead will, they order their Murkrow cronies to overwhelm those that annoy them.","Since no Pokémon in this family are very active, they pose virtually no danger to humans. Though they possess psychic abilities of varying strength, they rarely exert the energy to utilize them except when in battle. Slowking are very friendly with humans, acting as mentors or gurus in some cases. It should be noted that the Shellder attached to these Pokémon can become defensive when their hosts (and food supplies) and endangered, however. ","Misdreavus are tricksters and have many ways of scaring forest travelers; carrying a torch or flashlight is recommended to keep them at bay. Their shrieks can be heard from far away, however, so trainers should cover their ears as soon as they hear them to block out their unnerving cries. Mismagius tend to ignore humans. They may curse those that anger them with hallucinations or headaches using their incantations, however; light sources will also ward off wild Mismagius.","Although Unown do not seem to be hostile, it is difficult to determine their dispositions because of their perplexing natures. Harming a wild Unown will cause the whole swarm to rush to its defense, causing all sorts of unknown effects. Vandalizing the ruins and temples these Pokémon call home is also ill-advised; there have been reports of people being teleported to remote locations without their memories or even disappearing entirely for defacing Unown habitats.","Roughhousing with either of these Pokémon not recommended, as they will retaliate with proportionally stronger forces. They are also highly protective of their tails; Wobbuffet will even take proactive measures to defend their tails if they feel they may be in danger (something they almost never do). Wynaut will squeeze up against others to play, which may cause bruises. Finally, some people find their repetitive vocalizations irksome, particularly when both Pokémon are together.","Never approach a wild or fellow trainer’s Girafarig from behind, as their rear heads will almost certainly bite. Because their rear heads work based on smell, wearing perfume or other strong-smelling substances will cause even trained Girafarig to attack, as the substane would mask the familiar scent. If the rear head must ever be placated for some reason, trainers should distract it with a flashing light; they can only focus on one object at a time because of their primitive brains.","Disturbing trees with Pineco colonies is ill-advised, as they will drop from their branches and explode to send fragments of bark flying everywhere at high speeds. Endangered Forretress will also react similarly, but will release sharp metal shrapnel instead. Forretress will also periodically dislodge chips of their shell onto the ground below, which are sharp and can pierce the soles of shoes as well as automobile and bike tires; they may also shoot these broken pieces at intruders.","Disturbing trees with Pineco colonies is ill-advised, as they will drop from their branches and explode to send fragments of bark flying everywhere at high speeds. Endangered Forretress will also react similarly, but will release sharp metal shrapnel instead. Forretress will also periodically dislodge chips of their shell onto the ground below, which are sharp and can pierce the soles of shoes as well as automobile and bike tires; they may also shoot these broken pieces at intruders.","For the most part, Dunsparce are timid Pokémon that are largely harmless to humans. Because of their habitats, they are rarely sighted by everyday travelers. Trained Dunsparce, however, can cause damage to hardwood floors and carpets if they are kept indoors, as they will try to burrow underground when scared. Some believe that Dunsparce are venomous, injecting venom through their chin growths or bites. This is entirely untrue; Dunsparce in fact are completely toothless.","Neither of these Pokémon are the safest Pokémon for trainers to raise, but they can be very affectionate with those they trust. Trainers should obviously be careful around their pincers and stingers. Wild Gligar are known to attack the faces of trainers passing nearby, so travelers should be wary when passing through their nesting areas. Gliscor are large enough to attack small Pokémon and trainers; they navigate by echolocation and can be disoriented with high-pitched whistles.","Neither of these Pokémon are particularly aggressive, though Steelix are slightly more confrontational than their pre-evolutions. These Pokémon are commonly encountered in subterranean environments, where their large statures can sometimes unintentionally make them hazards, especially in tight tunnels. Their tunneling is also known to cause earthquakes and weaken foundations when too many intersecting tunnels are burrowed underneath structures.","Neither of these Pokémon are aggressive, so they don’t pose much of a threat to humans. Startled Snubbull and especially solitary Granbull will bare their fangs, but they almost inevitably will flee when push comes to shove. Granbull are fiercely protective of their friends and family, however, and should not be trifled with; if they sense their loved ones being threatened, they will attack ferociously with their powerful fangs to defend them.","Neither of these Pokémon are aggressive, so they don’t pose much of a threat to humans. Startled Snubbull and especially solitary Granbull will bare their fangs, but they almost inevitably will flee when push comes to shove. Granbull are fiercely protective of their friends and family, however, and should not be trifled with; if they sense their loved ones being threatened, they will attack ferociously with their powerful fangs to defend them.","Qwilfish are highly venomous, but they are not aggressive towards humans. In fact, they tend to ignore most beings that aren’t other Qwilfish, as their venom and spikes provide them with more than enough protection against potential threats. They will begin to puff up and fill themselves with water if they feel threatened, preparing to launch their spikes. Trainers should have ample time to escape if they see this, as it takes them a bit of time to fully inflate.","Scyther are aggressive and dangerous Pokémon, particularly because they are usually found in packs. Even lone Scyther seem to be more aggressive than social ones. Scizor are more territorial than confrontational, and will threaten intruders with the eyes on their pincers before lunging to attack. Though Scyther tend to be more threatening to humans, both Pokémon should be given wide berths in the wild to avoid angering them.","These Pokémon are practically harmless to humans, as they are slow and will hide in their shells if threatened. Although Shuckle juices are highly valued, it is not recommended to drink the juice of any wild Shuckle. Not only does this deplete the wild Pokémon’s emergency food reserve, but the juice may also be poisonous, depending on what Berries it has stored and how long it has fermented--factors that are controlled in commercial Berry Juice and other juice productions.","Although Heracross are very easy-going, they will quickly become enraged if they are interrupted while feeding on tree sap. They will not hesitate to charge at those that bother them too much, launching foes far away with tremendous force. Trainers should leave wild Heracross alone in the wild, particularly if they are feeding. As one might expect, a rampaging Heracross can be calmed with an offering of Combee Honey.","Wild Sneasel and Weavile should be treated with much caution, as they are agile Pokémon with sharp claws. There have been recorded incidents of Weavile packs going after weary mountain travelers. Strength in numbers is the best defense against Weavile; even the strongest lone fighter can be overwhelmed by an entire pack. These Pokémon dislike extended fights, and will flee if they cannot take down their target quickly enough.","Young Teddiursa pose little to no threat in the wild. They are curious and may even approach humans they spot in the woods to investigate the new creatures. Approaching Teddiursa, or allowing one to approach, however, should be avoided at all costs; their parents are very protective of them and can easily maul those that threaten their offspring. Ursaring are territorial and will also attack perceived threats to their land, but will leave peaceful travelers alone for the most part.","Young Teddiursa pose little to no threat in the wild. They are curious and may even approach humans they spot in the woods to investigate the new creatures. Approaching Teddiursa, or allowing one to approach, however, should be avoided at all costs; their parents are very protective of them and can easily maul those that threaten their offspring. Ursaring are territorial and will also attack perceived threats to their land, but will leave peaceful travelers alone for the most part.","These Pokémon, at least wild-caught ones, are not at all recommended for beginning or even intermediate trainers; though very docile (they have virtually no enemies in the wild), they require extensive care prior to even being brought to human settlements. Individuals that have already been treated are still very hot to the touch, and can still cause moderate burns. It goes without saying that they should not be kept in wooden homes or around flammable materials.","These Pokémon, at least wild-caught ones, are not at all recommended for beginning or even intermediate trainers; though very docile (they have virtually no enemies in the wild), they require extensive care prior to even being brought to human settlements. Individuals that have already been treated are still very hot to the touch, and can still cause moderate burns. It goes without saying that they should not be kept in wooden homes or around flammable materials.","Swinub are not aggressive, but will charge recklessly towards the smell of food and can trip unwary travelers who happen to be carrying snacks. Piloswine act similarly, but are much heavier; they can cause significant injuries in a collision. They will also charge if they feel threatened or frightened by sounds they cannot locate the source of. Wild Mamoswine are rarely encountered by trainers; they are not aggressive, but will charge violently when angered or spooked.","Swinub are not aggressive, but will charge recklessly towards the smell of food and can trip unwary travelers who happen to be carrying snacks. Piloswine act similarly, but are much heavier; they can cause significant injuries in a collision. They will also charge if they feel threatened or frightened by sounds they cannot locate the source of. Wild Mamoswine are rarely encountered by trainers; they are not aggressive, but will charge violently when angered or spooked.","Corsola are not dangerous Pokémon; tourists in tropical regions will often go snorkeling or scuba diving in Corsola reefs with no problems. They aren’t aggressive and prefer to use their hard bodies to shrug off attacks rather than fight back. However, cornered Corsola may launch off their branches using Spike Cannon if left with no other option. Entire colonies will work together to ward off intruders, so tormenting a seemingly-harmless individual in a reef is very ill-advised.","Remoraid have sharp teeth and will defend their Mantine hosts viciously. In areas with few Mantine, sailors have recorded entire schools of Remoraid attaching to the undersides of their ships and slowing them down. These Pokémon can also shoot water with great force, so even individuals should be treated with caution. Octillery are curious but territorial and will defend themselves with blasts of water and ink. They will attack more fiercely the closer threats get to their small nests.","Remoraid have sharp teeth and will defend their Mantine hosts viciously. In areas with few Mantine, sailors have recorded entire schools of Remoraid attaching to the undersides of their ships and slowing them down. These Pokémon can also shoot water with great force, so even individuals should be treated with caution. Octillery are curious but territorial and will defend themselves with blasts of water and ink. They will attack more fiercely the closer threats get to their small nests.","Delibird are one of the most benevolent Pokémon known to man. Wild Delibird are will go out of their way to help out travelers that they come across, gifting them with food and supplies from their tails. Children in particular love Delibird, as these Pokémon seem to uncannily know what gifts children like best. In the off chance that a traveler spooks a wild Delibird, it will use Present to fling the contents of its tail; rocks and other hard objects can potentially cause harm.","Mantyke are very friendly; even wild ones will approach humans with little fear. However, they are also large and heavy, especially for a baby Pokémon; some people have been knocked off their surfboards and kayaks after being tackled by overeager Mantyke. Mantine are gentle giants and seem to completely ignore boats or swimming humans. However, they cannot easily stop after launching themselves into the air, so sailors should be cautious of “flying” schools of Mantine. ","Luckily, trainers rarely encounter these Pokémon in the wild, and those lost in the bleak badlands they call home often have more pressing matters on their hands--like finding food and shelter. These territorial Pokémon prefer to attack smaller prey if given a choice, but starving Skarmory will go after practically anything that moves. It is difficult to fight against or flee from these swift fliers, so trainers should simply stay out of their territories unless they are prepared.","Trainers should avoid packs of these Pokémon in the wild, as they are both territorial and aggressive. They are opportunistic hunters that will chase any prey they believe they can overpower. Because of this, running is a poor choice if one happens to cross paths with a wild pack. Instead, one should stand his or her ground and look as menacing as possible; brandishing a weapon or sending out a strong-looking Pokémon should be enough to cause a pack to back down.  ","Trainers should avoid packs of these Pokémon in the wild, as they are both territorial and aggressive. They are opportunistic hunters that will chase any prey they believe they can overpower. Because of this, running is a poor choice if one happens to cross paths with a wild pack. Instead, one should stand his or her ground and look as menacing as possible; brandishing a weapon or sending out a strong-looking Pokémon should be enough to cause a pack to back down.  ","All members of this family will spit ink when threatened, which, though nontoxic, can stain skin and fabric if not removed quickly. Seadra spines leak muscle-paralyzing poison. They can be particularly dangerous for swimmers, as their poison acts quickly and has led to the drownings of a number of victims. Both Seadra and Kingdra can generate whirlpools; Kingdra are particularly active during storms, and have been known to inadvertently suck down ships while catching food.","Although they are playful and very friendly, Phanpy should not be raised by young children or inexperienced trainers; they can accidentally, but severely injure people while playing because of their great strength. Similarly, trainers should avoid Phanpy in the wild even if they approach, because they aren’t aware of their might. Wild Donphan herd tend to ignore trainers as long as they don’t get in their way, but threatening one member will cause the whole herd to “charge.”","Although they are playful and very friendly, Phanpy should not be raised by young children or inexperienced trainers; they can accidentally, but severely injure people while playing because of their great strength. Similarly, trainers should avoid Phanpy in the wild even if they approach, because they aren’t aware of their might. Wild Donphan herd tend to ignore trainers as long as they don’t get in their way, but threatening one member will cause the whole herd to “charge.”","Neither Porygon nor Porygon2 pose any particular threat to humans in the real world. Famously, there was an incident in which a Porygon in a computer caused the screen to flash violently, triggering seizures in the children watching it. The bug has never reoccured, though the event scared much of the public away from training Porygon. Porygon-Z can be uncontrollable when glitching and may attack recklessly while doing so.","Stantler appear harmless and aloof; however, they should not be approached by unskilled trainers, whether alone or in a herd. Young, isolated Stantler will create powerful illusions of stampedes that can cause even the most composed people to panic. The antlers of these Pokémon are mesmerizing, so trainers should avoid staring into the black orbs on them. Spooked Stantler herds will actually stampede, and it does not take much to scare these restless creatures.","Wild Smeargle normally are not a great danger towards humans. Smeargle territory is easily recognizable by the brightly-painted trees that outline it. They are not threatened by people, however, and will not attack unless attacked first. Threatening wild Smeargle is very ill-advised, though. They can learn almost any attack known to man and will use them with impunity to defend themselves. Comrade Smeargle will also quickly come to the aid of their distressed brethren.","The Tyrogue family is well-suited for life among people, and are a common sight in dojos and gyms. Their main source of concern is their superb fighting techniques. However, they are just as skilled in restraining themselves in combat, so people should have no problem fighting alongside or even against them in training.","The Tyrogue family is well-suited for life among people, and are a common sight in dojos and gyms. Their main source of concern is their superb fighting techniques. However, they are just as skilled in restraining themselves in combat, so people should have no problem fighting alongside or even against them in training.","When uncomfortably hot, Smoochum will become very cranky. Spicy foods will cause these Pokémon great distress, as their lips are particularly sensitive and have many nerve endings.","All Pokémon in this line can deliver high-voltage shocks. Trainers should never stick their hands between an Elekid’s prongs, as an electric current will run through them whenever it charges. Electabuzz and Electivire are aggressive and will sometimes give chase if threatened. Touching an Electabuzz’s or Electivire’s horns or the latter’s twin tails is also not recommended. These Pokémon can also cause power outages if they drain too much electricity from a generator.","As Pokémon that can expel searing-hot flames, trainers should naturally be extremely careful around them. Luckily, they generally inhabit the craters of active volcanoes, where few trainers would be able to venture anyways. Additionally, they are not aggressive or even territorial. Despite this, travelers should give any stray individuals they come across a wide berth, as both Magmar and Magmortar can radiate significant heat even while standing still.","Domestic Miltank are calm and slow to anger. They pose little threat even to children, which is why they are often seen at petting zoos. Wild Miltank are usually descended from escaped domestic ones, and almost always are just as docile. Angry Miltank are something to be feared, however. They can barrel at foes by rolling down slopes at incredibly high speeds, knocking them far away. Hooligans that try to mess with Miltank often are traumatized by the experiences that follow.","","","","","None of these Pokémon should be approached in the wild. Larvitar are rarely seen, but sighting one inevitably means the mother is nearby; trainers should immediately run if they see a Larvitar emerging from the ground. Pupitar will trigger rockslides by thrashing about if threatened; they can also launch their heavy bodies with high speed at attackers. Tyranitar are one of the most fearsome Pokémon known to man. Trainers should stay far away from known Tyranitar territory.","None of these Pokémon should be approached in the wild. Larvitar are rarely seen, but sighting one inevitably means the mother is nearby; trainers should immediately run if they see a Larvitar emerging from the ground. Pupitar will trigger rockslides by thrashing about if threatened; they can also launch their heavy bodies with high speed at attackers. Tyranitar are one of the most fearsome Pokémon known to man. Trainers should stay far away from known Tyranitar territory.","None of these Pokémon should be approached in the wild. Larvitar are rarely seen, but sighting one inevitably means the mother is nearby; trainers should immediately run if they see a Larvitar emerging from the ground. Pupitar will trigger rockslides by thrashing about if threatened; they can also launch their heavy bodies with high speed at attackers. Tyranitar are one of the most fearsome Pokémon known to man. Trainers should stay far away from known Tyranitar territory.","","","","Trained Pokémon of this family pose little threat to humans, as they are easygoing and hard to anger. Wild individuals are more wary of people; Treecko and Grovyle won’t attack unless attacked first, but may aggressively approach strangers by leaping from tree to tree to scare them off. Sceptile will passionately defend their homes; they will attack those who try to cut branches or fell trees in their territories. Those who leave the forest alone can pass through unharmed, though.","Trained Pokémon of this family pose little threat to humans, as they are easygoing and hard to anger. Wild individuals are more wary of people; Treecko and Grovyle won’t attack unless attacked first, but may aggressively approach strangers by leaping from tree to tree to scare them off. Sceptile will passionately defend their homes; they will attack those who try to cut branches or fell trees in their territories. Those who leave the forest alone can pass through unharmed, though.","Trained Pokémon of this family pose little threat to humans, as they are easygoing and hard to anger. Wild individuals are more wary of people; Treecko and Grovyle won’t attack unless attacked first, but may aggressively approach strangers by leaping from tree to tree to scare them off. Sceptile will passionately defend their homes; they will attack those who try to cut branches or fell trees in their territories. Those who leave the forest alone can pass through unharmed, though.","Wild members of the Torchic line are rare. Combusken and Blaziken are not hostile, but do not like being approached by strangers; they may defend themselves with powerful kicks if trainers try to come too near. Torchic are very easily startled and may spew small embers as they attempt to escape; these cinders can spark brushfires in dry grasslands, so trainers should also be wary of spooking them.","Wild members of the Torchic line are rare. Combusken and Blaziken are not hostile, but do not like being approached by strangers; they may defend themselves with powerful kicks if trainers try to come too near. Torchic are very easily startled and may spew small embers as they attempt to escape; these cinders can spark brushfires in dry grasslands, so trainers should also be wary of spooking them.","Wild members of the Torchic line are rare. Combusken and Blaziken are not hostile, but do not like being approached by strangers; they may defend themselves with powerful kicks if trainers try to come too near. Torchic are very easily startled and may spew small embers as they attempt to escape; these cinders can spark brushfires in dry grasslands, so trainers should also be wary of spooking them.","Mudkip are cute and friendly, but are also deceptively strong for their size. They can throw boulders to defend themselves if threatened. Marshtomp are surprisingly territorial, though few trainers are willing to wade into the muck they dwell in. Swampert nest on beaches or near estuaries; they are protective of their nests, so trainers should not approach them. If one sees a Swampert building up a barricade of boulders, a storm is likely coming; one should find cover immediately.","Mudkip are cute and friendly, but are also deceptively strong for their size. They can throw boulders to defend themselves if threatened. Marshtomp are surprisingly territorial, though few trainers are willing to wade into the muck they dwell in. Swampert nest on beaches or near estuaries; they are protective of their nests, so trainers should not approach them. If one sees a Swampert building up a barricade of boulders, a storm is likely coming; one should find cover immediately.","Mudkip are cute and friendly, but are also deceptively strong for their size. They can throw boulders to defend themselves if threatened. Marshtomp are surprisingly territorial, though few trainers are willing to wade into the muck they dwell in. Swampert nest on beaches or near estuaries; they are protective of their nests, so trainers should not approach them. If one sees a Swampert building up a barricade of boulders, a storm is likely coming; one should find cover immediately.","These Pokémon are often aggressive, but they are also opportunists. They will not attempt to attack foes that they think can fight back. Wild Poochyena will flee if their target does not cower in front of them, and packs of Mightyena usually won’t pursue a foe that stands his or her ground. Weakness is the worst thing one can display when confronting these Pokémon. Running will only encourage them to give chase, so trainers should stay put and seem as imposing as possible.","These Pokémon are often aggressive, but they are also opportunists. They will not attempt to attack foes that they think can fight back. Wild Poochyena will flee if their target does not cower in front of them, and packs of Mightyena usually won’t pursue a foe that stands his or her ground. Weakness is the worst thing one can display when confronting these Pokémon. Running will only encourage them to give chase, so trainers should stay put and seem as imposing as possible.","Neither of these Pokémon pose any significant threat to humans. Zigzagoon will flee or play dead when scared, and are considered more of a pest than a danger in urban areas because they often knock over trash cans while rummaging through them. Linoone also prefer to flee from danger with their great speed. If cornered, though, they may attack by headbutting the aggressor before dashing away. Because they can only run straight, however, they are relatively easy to dodge.","Neither of these Pokémon pose any significant threat to humans. Zigzagoon will flee or play dead when scared, and are considered more of a pest than a danger in urban areas because they often knock over trash cans while rummaging through them. Linoone also prefer to flee from danger with their great speed. If cornered, though, they may attack by headbutting the aggressor before dashing away. Because they can only run straight, however, they are relatively easy to dodge.","The Wurmple line, to the surprise of many, are one of the most common sources of human injury in Hoenn. Wurmple are more of a nuisance, spitting silk at travelers. Beautifly, however, are actively aggressive, especially during mating season. They may stab passerby without being provoked or try to drain small Pokémon of their bodily fluids. Dustox are not aggressive, but can cause damage in cities when they strip trees of foliage and leave behind clouds of toxic dust.","The Wurmple line, to the surprise of many, are one of the most common sources of human injury in Hoenn. Wurmple are more of a nuisance, spitting silk at travelers. Beautifly, however, are actively aggressive, especially during mating season. They may stab passerby without being provoked or try to drain small Pokémon of their bodily fluids. Dustox are not aggressive, but can cause damage in cities when they strip trees of foliage and leave behind clouds of toxic dust.","The Wurmple line, to the surprise of many, are one of the most common sources of human injury in Hoenn. Wurmple are more of a nuisance, spitting silk at travelers. Beautifly, however, are actively aggressive, especially during mating season. They may stab passerby without being provoked or try to drain small Pokémon of their bodily fluids. Dustox are not aggressive, but can cause damage in cities when they strip trees of foliage and leave behind clouds of toxic dust.","The Wurmple line, to the surprise of many, are one of the most common sources of human injury in Hoenn. Wurmple are more of a nuisance, spitting silk at travelers. Beautifly, however, are actively aggressive, especially during mating season. They may stab passerby without being provoked or try to drain small Pokémon of their bodily fluids. Dustox are not aggressive, but can cause damage in cities when they strip trees of foliage and leave behind clouds of toxic dust.","The Wurmple line, to the surprise of many, are one of the most common sources of human injury in Hoenn. Wurmple are more of a nuisance, spitting silk at travelers. Beautifly, however, are actively aggressive, especially during mating season. They may stab passerby without being provoked or try to drain small Pokémon of their bodily fluids. Dustox are not aggressive, but can cause damage in cities when they strip trees of foliage and leave behind clouds of toxic dust.","Lotad are docile and are almost never aggressive to humans, usually ignoring people entirely. Lombre, however, are mischievous Pokémon that often mess with fishermen and travelers near the water’s edge. Spelon Berries will placate the pranksters and keep them at bay. Ludicolo are jolly creatures who usually diffuse tension through dance. Trainers may find themselves unable to stop dancing when they are around, making them more of a distraction than a danger.","Lotad are docile and are almost never aggressive to humans, usually ignoring people entirely. Lombre, however, are mischievous Pokémon that often mess with fishermen and travelers near the water’s edge. Spelon Berries will placate the pranksters and keep them at bay. Ludicolo are jolly creatures who usually diffuse tension through dance. Trainers may find themselves unable to stop dancing when they are around, making them more of a distraction than a danger.","Lotad are docile and are almost never aggressive to humans, usually ignoring people entirely. Lombre, however, are mischievous Pokémon that often mess with fishermen and travelers near the water’s edge. Spelon Berries will placate the pranksters and keep them at bay. Ludicolo are jolly creatures who usually diffuse tension through dance. Trainers may find themselves unable to stop dancing when they are around, making them more of a distraction than a danger.","Seedot can certainly be nuisances to trainers, orienting their shiny bodies to reflect sunlight into the eyes of passerby or dropping themselves onto the heads of travelers below. However, they hardly are dangerous Pokémon. Nuzleaf also rarely cause significant harm, but can induce deep paranoia with their tricks. Shiftry are rarely ever encountered in the wild; they dislike being near by humans and will blow them away with very strong, dangerous winds if approached.","Seedot can certainly be nuisances to trainers, orienting their shiny bodies to reflect sunlight into the eyes of passerby or dropping themselves onto the heads of travelers below. However, they hardly are dangerous Pokémon. Nuzleaf also rarely cause significant harm, but can induce deep paranoia with their tricks. Shiftry are rarely ever encountered in the wild; they dislike being near by humans and will blow them away with very strong, dangerous winds if approached.","Seedot can certainly be nuisances to trainers, orienting their shiny bodies to reflect sunlight into the eyes of passerby or dropping themselves onto the heads of travelers below. However, they hardly are dangerous Pokémon. Nuzleaf also rarely cause significant harm, but can induce deep paranoia with their tricks. Shiftry are rarely ever encountered in the wild; they dislike being near by humans and will blow them away with very strong, dangerous winds if approached.","Young Taillow are not particularly dangerous, but they are aggressive; they will pick fights with people and Pokémon much larger than themselves. In flocks, they can pose a larger threat due to their greater numbers. They are also a pest to crops and Berry trees. Swellow are more docile, but can still be territorial. They will fiercely defend their nests by swooping at attackers with their beaks and talons.","Young Taillow are not particularly dangerous, but they are aggressive; they will pick fights with people and Pokémon much larger than themselves. In flocks, they can pose a larger threat due to their greater numbers. They are also a pest to crops and Berry trees. Swellow are more docile, but can still be territorial. They will fiercely defend their nests by swooping at attackers with their beaks and talons.","Wingull are more of a pest than a danger. They may swoop down from above to snatch food or belongings from unwary people below. They also tend to dispose of their waste indiscriminately while in midair, much to the disgust of beachgoers. Pelipper are very mellow Pokémon that tend to remain aloof to their surroundings. Even if directly threatened, they prefer to fly away from danger rather than face it head-on.","Wingull are more of a pest than a danger. They may swoop down from above to snatch food or belongings from unwary people below. They also tend to dispose of their waste indiscriminately while in midair, much to the disgust of beachgoers. Pelipper are very mellow Pokémon that tend to remain aloof to their surroundings. Even if directly threatened, they prefer to fly away from danger rather than face it head-on.","Ralts will teleport away from those who they sense are aggressive; consequently, they are almost never seen by those who mean to cause it harm. Kirlia can distort space to create illusions, though it never does this to hurt others. Gardevoir and Gallade will lay down their lives to protect their trainers; Gallade will also challenge those who dishonor it to the death. It is difficult to truly anger either of these Pokémon, however, so dangerous situations almost never arise with them.","Ralts will teleport away from those who they sense are aggressive; consequently, they are almost never seen by those who mean to cause it harm. Kirlia can distort space to create illusions, though it never does this to hurt others. Gardevoir and Gallade will lay down their lives to protect their trainers; Gallade will also challenge those who dishonor it to the death. It is difficult to truly anger either of these Pokémon, however, so dangerous situations almost never arise with them.","Ralts will teleport away from those who they sense are aggressive; consequently, they are almost never seen by those who mean to cause it harm. Kirlia can distort space to create illusions, though it never does this to hurt others. Gardevoir and Gallade will lay down their lives to protect their trainers; Gallade will also challenge those who dishonor it to the death. It is difficult to truly anger either of these Pokémon, however, so dangerous situations almost never arise with them.","Surskit themselves are not much of a danger to humans. They can secrete pheromones to attract larger, more dangerous Pokémon to the area, however, when threatened. Trainers are advised to leave wild Surskit alone unless they wish to face menacing Crawdaunt or Yanmega. Masquerain may seem frail, but are more than capable of defending themselves with Water-, Bug-, and Flying-type techniques. ","Surskit themselves are not much of a danger to humans. They can secrete pheromones to attract larger, more dangerous Pokémon to the area, however, when threatened. Trainers are advised to leave wild Surskit alone unless they wish to face menacing Crawdaunt or Yanmega. Masquerain may seem frail, but are more than capable of defending themselves with Water-, Bug-, and Flying-type techniques. ","Shroomish poisoning is one of the most common trainer injuries in the Hoenn region. Luckily, it is not severe and can be quickly and easily treated by most Pokémon Centers. Trainers should carry Antidotes when traveling through forests just in case, however. Unassuming Breloom are very formidable foes that can use their club-like tails to poison threats before pummeling them with a volley of punches. They aren’t aggressive, however, and won’t attack unless approached. ","Shroomish poisoning is one of the most common trainer injuries in the Hoenn region. Luckily, it is not severe and can be quickly and easily treated by most Pokémon Centers. Trainers should carry Antidotes when traveling through forests just in case, however. Unassuming Breloom are very formidable foes that can use their club-like tails to poison threats before pummeling them with a volley of punches. They aren’t aggressive, however, and won’t attack unless approached. ","Slakoth alone are not dangerous, but their presence indicates that Vigoroth troops are nearby. Staring at a Slakoth for too long can make one drowsy. Vigoroth troops are very rowdy; they will give chase at the slightest provocation, so trainers should stay far away. Luckily, they make too much noise to miss. Wild Slaking are usually too lazy to attack, but under no circumstances should trainers try to provoke one by endangering its colony; they will immediately regret it.","Slakoth alone are not dangerous, but their presence indicates that Vigoroth troops are nearby. Staring at a Slakoth for too long can make one drowsy. Vigoroth troops are very rowdy; they will give chase at the slightest provocation, so trainers should stay far away. Luckily, they make too much noise to miss. Wild Slaking are usually too lazy to attack, but under no circumstances should trainers try to provoke one by endangering its colony; they will immediately regret it.","Slakoth alone are not dangerous, but their presence indicates that Vigoroth troops are nearby. Staring at a Slakoth for too long can make one drowsy. Vigoroth troops are very rowdy; they will give chase at the slightest provocation, so trainers should stay far away. Luckily, they make too much noise to miss. Wild Slaking are usually too lazy to attack, but under no circumstances should trainers try to provoke one by endangering its colony; they will immediately regret it.","Nincada are rarely seen in the wild, as they normally remain underground. Ninjask are also rarely seen, but they are definitely heard. Their ear-piercing buzzing can cause sharp headaches in those that listen for too long. Never disturb feeding Ninjask; they will fiercely and swiftly slash at their aggressors. Shedinja may not steal the souls of those who glimpse at their holes, but their unmoving, silent presence can make those around them extremely uncomfortable.","Nincada are rarely seen in the wild, as they normally remain underground. Ninjask are also rarely seen, but they are definitely heard. Their ear-piercing buzzing can cause sharp headaches in those that listen for too long. Never disturb feeding Ninjask; they will fiercely and swiftly slash at their aggressors. Shedinja may not steal the souls of those who glimpse at their holes, but their unmoving, silent presence can make those around them extremely uncomfortable.","Nincada are rarely seen in the wild, as they normally remain underground. Ninjask are also rarely seen, but they are definitely heard. Their ear-piercing buzzing can cause sharp headaches in those that listen for too long. Never disturb feeding Ninjask; they will fiercely and swiftly slash at their aggressors. Shedinja may not steal the souls of those who glimpse at their holes, but their unmoving, silent presence can make those around them extremely uncomfortable.","Loss of hearing is the primary concern regarding these Pokémon. All members of this family can shriek or bellow loud enough to cause temporary deafness with short exposure, and permanent deafness over an extended period of time. Ear plugs are a necessity when raising these creatures or even traveling through their territory. Underground, their yelling can trigger cavern collapses. Loudred and Exploud can physically injure people with the powerful sound waves they create.","Loss of hearing is the primary concern regarding these Pokémon. All members of this family can shriek or bellow loud enough to cause temporary deafness with short exposure, and permanent deafness over an extended period of time. Ear plugs are a necessity when raising these creatures or even traveling through their territory. Underground, their yelling can trigger cavern collapses. Loudred and Exploud can physically injure people with the powerful sound waves they create.","Loss of hearing is the primary concern regarding these Pokémon. All members of this family can shriek or bellow loud enough to cause temporary deafness with short exposure, and permanent deafness over an extended period of time. Ear plugs are a necessity when raising these creatures or even traveling through their territory. Underground, their yelling can trigger cavern collapses. Loudred and Exploud can physically injure people with the powerful sound waves they create.","Wild Makuhita seem to be comfortable around humans, and will ignore travelers in favor of training unless they are bothered. Hariyama are slightly more wary of people, but similarly won’t attack unless threatened first. These Pokémon make popular sparring partners, since even the strongest punches won’t bruise their tough bodies. Hariyama can easily defeat any human in wrestling; novices risk severe injury challenging these Pokémon without proper equipment.","Wild Makuhita seem to be comfortable around humans, and will ignore travelers in favor of training unless they are bothered. Hariyama are slightly more wary of people, but similarly won’t attack unless threatened first. These Pokémon make popular sparring partners, since even the strongest punches won’t bruise their tough bodies. Hariyama can easily defeat any human in wrestling; novices risk severe injury challenging these Pokémon without proper equipment.","These Pokémon are very friendly both to other Pokémon and to humans; wild Azumarill will even go out of their way to rescue drowning individuals. Azurill travel by swinging their tails around like lassos, and can cause small bruises if they accidentally hit someone. A single crying Azurill can also cause an entire group of them to cry, becoming very shrill and grating. Azumarill are surprisingly strong for their size and should not be underestimated because of their friendly natures.","As one would expect, these Pokémon should be kept far away from anything metallic and valuable. They don’t actively seek to harm humans, but may attempt to draw in bicycles or even cars with magnetism fir their iron even as people are riding them. Compasses will malfunction when near these Pokémon; although they always point north, it can be extremely confusing when one is close enough to notice its effects on one’s compass without actually being able to see them.","These Pokémon pose virtually no threat to humans. For one, they are not confrontational and will flee from harm before fighting it. For another, they are very comfortable around humans. Delcatty in particular don’t even seem to have a way to defend themselves. They simply walk--not run--away from danger. Their trainers seem to be irrationally protective of them, however; perhaps a Delcatty’s greatest strength lies in its ability to charm humans into protecting them.","These Pokémon pose virtually no threat to humans. For one, they are not confrontational and will flee from harm before fighting it. For another, they are very comfortable around humans. Delcatty in particular don’t even seem to have a way to defend themselves. They simply walk--not run--away from danger. Their trainers seem to be irrationally protective of them, however; perhaps a Delcatty’s greatest strength lies in its ability to charm humans into protecting them.","In the wild, Sableye are mischievous tricksters that enjoy messing with spelunkers. They may sabotage valuable equipment and alter trails, making them potentially dangerous to be around. The best way to deter Sableye is to distract them with something more interesting--cheap children’s toys and puzzles can keep them occupied. These Pokémon can be very unnerving to some, causing psychological distress. They will also eat valuable gemstone jewelry if left unattended.","Wild Mawile normally don’t try to lure trainers near them, but brash Pokémon may try to approach these unassuming creatures before being surprised by their powerful horns. While they may seem meek, these Pokémon are scrappy fighters if cornered. They will not hesitate to lock their false jaws onto vulnerable body parts and limbs. Mawile dislike confrontation with large foes, however, and will usually try to scare them off with their horns before biting.","Aron are a huge pest in the mining industry, swarming around exposed iron ore and even eating metallic mining equipment. Lairon are very aggressive, especially during mating season. They may charge with little warning, so travelers should be wary when climbing iron-rich mountains. Aggron will protect their homes fiercely, challenging those who litter or deface their land. They will leave those that show respect for their territory alone, however.","Aron are a huge pest in the mining industry, swarming around exposed iron ore and even eating metallic mining equipment. Lairon are very aggressive, especially during mating season. They may charge with little warning, so travelers should be wary when climbing iron-rich mountains. Aggron will protect their homes fiercely, challenging those who litter or deface their land. They will leave those that show respect for their territory alone, however.","Aron are a huge pest in the mining industry, swarming around exposed iron ore and even eating metallic mining equipment. Lairon are very aggressive, especially during mating season. They may charge with little warning, so travelers should be wary when climbing iron-rich mountains. Aggron will protect their homes fiercely, challenging those who litter or deface their land. They will leave those that show respect for their territory alone, however.","These Pokémon are not hostile or dangerous towards humans. Medicham in particular almost never fight people, instead choosing to peacefully practice in remote mountains. They can skillfully camouflage so hikers never even know they are there. Meditite are a bit feistier than their evolutions and may lash out when provoked; however, they try to regain their composure and ignore the aggressors rather than fight back.","These Pokémon are not hostile or dangerous towards humans. Medicham in particular almost never fight people, instead choosing to peacefully practice in remote mountains. They can skillfully camouflage so hikers never even know they are there. Meditite are a bit feistier than their evolutions and may lash out when provoked; however, they try to regain their composure and ignore the aggressors rather than fight back.","Electrike can be rather feisty Pokémon; they will bare their teeth and bark before they attack. They must charge up for some time once they release their electricity; however, their bites are still just as painful during this time. Manectric are rarely spotted in the wild, but their presence can signal impending thunderstorms. Trainers should take cover if they see one; since they can also spark brushfires, it may be wise to stay as far away from these Pokémon as possible.","Electrike can be rather feisty Pokémon; they will bare their teeth and bark before they attack. They must charge up for some time once they release their electricity; however, their bites are still just as painful during this time. Manectric are rarely spotted in the wild, but their presence can signal impending thunderstorms. Trainers should take cover if they see one; since they can also spark brushfires, it may be wise to stay as far away from these Pokémon as possible.","Plusle and Minun in a pair are very protective of one another. Minun are more confrontational, but both will give their lives to defend their partners. Minun also don’t take losing very well, and may attack opponents that defeat their allies with electrical shocks if their partner Plusle don’t calm them down. Both Pokémon can be minor pests in urban areas when they feed on electricity. Plusle can be particularly annoying when they scale telephone poles for this purpose.","Plusle and Minun in a pair are very protective of one another. Minun are more confrontational, but both will give their lives to defend their partners. Minun also don’t take losing very well, and may attack opponents that defeat their allies with electrical shocks if their partner Plusle don’t calm them down. Both Pokémon can be minor pests in urban areas when they feed on electricity. Plusle can be particularly annoying when they scale telephone poles for this purpose.","These Pokémon don’t pose much of a threat to humans. Illumise are generally friendly when it comes to people, and Volbeat swarms are usually too enamored with their Illumise to notice travelers. They will fiercely defend their Illumise from attackers, however; by using Tail Glow, they can launch powerful attacks at threats in unison. Many Volbeat brightly and rapidly flashing their lights in a swarm can also induce seizures in those that are prone to them.","These Pokémon don’t pose much of a threat to humans. Illumise are generally friendly when it comes to people, and Volbeat swarms are usually too enamored with their Illumise to notice travelers. They will fiercely defend their Illumise from attackers, however; by using Tail Glow, they can launch powerful attacks at threats in unison. Many Volbeat brightly and rapidly flashing their lights in a swarm can also induce seizures in those that are prone to them.","Although they look beautiful, these Pokémon are toxic and should not be approached. Budew can spray toxic pollen that may trigger allergy attacks or launch anxiety-inducing, hallucinogenic seeds. Roselia and Roserade can inject different toxins into attackers with their thorns, which can cause excruciating pain or even paralyze. Roserade also conceal thorny whips in their flowers that  they can expertly wield against foes. ","These Pokémon are very dangerous; even experienced trainers should treat them with extreme caution. In addition to being toxic to the touch, expelling noxious fumes, and vomiting stomach acid, these curious Pokémon have no qualms investigating strangers with their whiskers and mouths. Luckily, they are practically blind with no sense of smell; as long as one stays far away, it is unlikely that they will approach.","These Pokémon are very dangerous; even experienced trainers should treat them with extreme caution. In addition to being toxic to the touch, expelling noxious fumes, and vomiting stomach acid, these curious Pokémon have no qualms investigating strangers with their whiskers and mouths. Luckily, they are practically blind with no sense of smell; as long as one stays far away, it is unlikely that they will approach.","Carvanha are only dangerous in schools. The scent of blood will trigger them into feeding frenzies, but pinching their mouths closed will prevent them from biting (though in large numbers, this is not very effective). Wild Sharpedo are feared, and for good reason. They will ram into boat hulls at high speeds to dent them, using their sharp teeth to tear holes. Punching a Sharpedo in the nose will stun it, but its rough skin can scratch if rubbed the wrong way. ","Carvanha are only dangerous in schools. The scent of blood will trigger them into feeding frenzies, but pinching their mouths closed will prevent them from biting (though in large numbers, this is not very effective). Wild Sharpedo are feared, and for good reason. They will ram into boat hulls at high speeds to dent them, using their sharp teeth to tear holes. Punching a Sharpedo in the nose will stun it, but its rough skin can scratch if rubbed the wrong way. ","Playful Wailmer love bouncing around on beaches; however, they are large Pokémon that can unintentionally hurt smaller people and Pokémon while doing so. Wailord are peaceful giants, but their size can similarly make them unintentionally dangerous. They are known to leap out of the water before diving back down, creating huge splashes that can capsize boats. This danger is compounded by the fact that Wailord often swim in pods that all surface in unison.","Playful Wailmer love bouncing around on beaches; however, they are large Pokémon that can unintentionally hurt smaller people and Pokémon while doing so. Wailord are peaceful giants, but their size can similarly make them unintentionally dangerous. They are known to leap out of the water before diving back down, creating huge splashes that can capsize boats. This danger is compounded by the fact that Wailord often swim in pods that all surface in unison.","Although Numel are full of magma, one would not even notice while riding one because of how well-insulated their humps are. These slow-witted, docile Pokémon pose little danger to humans. Camerupt are not aggressive, but also don’t pay much attention to what is around them when they erupt. Trainers should give them a wide berth to prevent severe injury. Camerupt will also become enraged when hit in the face, charging about and spewing lava everywhere.","Although Numel are full of magma, one would not even notice while riding one because of how well-insulated their humps are. These slow-witted, docile Pokémon pose little danger to humans. Camerupt are not aggressive, but also don’t pay much attention to what is around them when they erupt. Trainers should give them a wide berth to prevent severe injury. Camerupt will also become enraged when hit in the face, charging about and spewing lava everywhere.","Torkoal eat nothing more than coal. They store coal that they find in their hollow shells, where they can then burn it to produce smoke, which they use for communication and defense, as well as energy.","Wild Spoink aren’t very dangerous to people. They can be a nuisance when they try to steal round objects like Poké Balls or pearl jewelry to place on their heads. Grumpig seldom attack humans directly; however, they can manipulate other Pokémon into defending them if threatened, or even persuade travelers to turn around and leave. They rarely try to cause any more harm than is necessary to defuse the threat, however.","Wild Spoink aren’t very dangerous to people. They can be a nuisance when they try to steal round objects like Poké Balls or pearl jewelry to place on their heads. Grumpig seldom attack humans directly; however, they can manipulate other Pokémon into defending them if threatened, or even persuade travelers to turn around and leave. They rarely try to cause any more harm than is necessary to defuse the threat, however.","Spinda aren’t aggressive or dangerous Pokémon. They rarely even seem to be coherent enough to notice threats, let alone defend themselves. Their lurching and stumbling can cause extreme dizziness in those that try to watch them. This is especially effective in large numbers, as watching group of teetering Spinda can cause a person to keel over in disorientation. As long as one doesn’t stare at these Pokemon for too long, they should not pose much of a danger when traveling.","Trapinch pits can be hazardous for travelers; though these Pokémon don’t actively hunt people, they will bite pretty much anything that falls into their pits. Tipping them headfirst will prevent them from biting or getting up. Vibrava’s wings produce earsplitting sonic waves that can stun people, so trainers may need to wear earplugs to prevent loss of hearing; they can also spew acid to defend themselves from threats. Flygon whip up sandstorms to blind and disorient threats, but also seem unusually benevolent to desert travelers.","Trapinch pits can be hazardous for travelers; though these Pokémon don’t actively hunt people, they will bite pretty much anything that falls into their pits. Tipping them headfirst will prevent them from biting or getting up. Vibrava’s wings produce earsplitting sonic waves that can stun people, so trainers may need to wear earplugs to prevent loss of hearing; they can also spew acid to defend themselves from threats. Flygon whip up sandstorms to blind and disorient threats, but also seem unusually benevolent to desert travelers.","Trapinch pits can be hazardous for travelers; though these Pokémon don’t actively hunt people, they will bite pretty much anything that falls into their pits. Tipping them headfirst will prevent them from biting or getting up. Vibrava’s wings produce earsplitting sonic waves that can stun people, so trainers may need to wear earplugs to prevent loss of hearing; they can also spew acid to defend themselves from threats. Flygon whip up sandstorms to blind and disorient threats, but also seem unusually benevolent to desert travelers.","Cacnea can be a problem for unwary travelers who mistake them for actual cacti; they will defend themselves with Pin Missile threatened, but won’t actively chase aggressors. Cacturne are inactive during the day, but strike fear in the hearts of desert trainers at night. If pursued by a Cacturne group, the best approach is to frequently look back; they will not approach while they know they are being watched. Trainers should stay calm, because they take advantage of fear and paranoia.","Cacnea can be a problem for unwary travelers who mistake them for actual cacti; they will defend themselves with Pin Missile threatened, but won’t actively chase aggressors. Cacturne are inactive during the day, but strike fear in the hearts of desert trainers at night. If pursued by a Cacturne group, the best approach is to frequently look back; they will not approach while they know they are being watched. Trainers should stay calm, because they take advantage of fear and paranoia.","These Pokémon don’t pose much of a threat to people. Swablu are almost entirely harmless, spending much of their time around humans either cleaning or perching calming on top of people’s heads. Altaria also are very peaceful Pokémon that try to soothe aggression before it leads to danger. They are more than capable of protecting themselves with attacks if necessary, however, though they will try defensive options before offensive ones.","These Pokémon don’t pose much of a threat to people. Swablu are almost entirely harmless, spending much of their time around humans either cleaning or perching calming on top of people’s heads. Altaria also are very peaceful Pokémon that try to soothe aggression before it leads to danger. They are more than capable of protecting themselves with attacks if necessary, however, though they will try defensive options before offensive ones.","These Pokémon can be dangerous if encountered in the wild. While they won’t go out of their way to scare off travelers from their territory, they will not flee if accidentally approached. If they come across humans, they will stand their ground and prepare for battle. Trainers should back away slowly if they find a wild Zangoose; they will not chase foes that retreat. It goes without saying that trainers should recall their Seviper when travelling through Zangoose territory.","Many travelers fear encountering wild Seviper. They are often hidden by the the tall grasses in which they dwell. Seviper do not actively try to bite humans, though; most attacks result when unwary travelers nearly step on these Pokémon. Obviously, their tails, fangs, and venom make them very well-equipped to defend themselves, and people should give them a wide berth if they are spotted. Finally, trainers should recall their Zangoose when transversing Seviper territory.","While these Pokémon don’t appear to intentionally seek to cause humans harm, travelers should be at least somewhat wary of them. Lunatone strike fear into onlookers with their red eyes; they can paralyze or even knock out those that stare for too long. Solrock can blind foes with bright flashes of light or overwhelm them with intense heat. They seem to guard meteorites aggressively, attacking those that try to pick up debris from crash sites.","While these Pokémon don’t appear to intentionally seek to cause humans harm, travelers should be at least somewhat wary of them. Lunatone strike fear into onlookers with their red eyes; they can paralyze or even knock out those that stare for too long. Solrock can blind foes with bright flashes of light or overwhelm them with intense heat. They seem to guard meteorites aggressively, attacking those that try to pick up debris from crash sites.","Barboach aren’t very threatening towards humans, although the sensation of their slimy skin brushing against one’s legs while swimming is said to be incredibly unpleasant. Whiscash are more dangerous than their pre-evolutions, though. They are temperamental and territorial, quickly becoming angry when strangers approach their ponds. Their thrashing can generate strong earthquakes, so people should stay away from ponds where these Pokémon reside.","Barboach aren’t very threatening towards humans, although the sensation of their slimy skin brushing against one’s legs while swimming is said to be incredibly unpleasant. Whiscash are more dangerous than their pre-evolutions, though. They are temperamental and territorial, quickly becoming angry when strangers approach their ponds. Their thrashing can generate strong earthquakes, so people should stay away from ponds where these Pokémon reside.","Wild Corphish are notoriously brash; they will clamor over one another and try to pinch anything that enters their ponds. Crawdaunt are even more aggressive, clamping onto and tossing out any non-Corphish organisms from the waters. The ecological damage these Pokémon cause is by far their most destructive characteristic. Neither of these Pokémon leave the water to chase after opponents, though; as long as one stays on dry land, they are unlikely to attack.","Wild Corphish are notoriously brash; they will clamor over one another and try to pinch anything that enters their ponds. Crawdaunt are even more aggressive, clamping onto and tossing out any non-Corphish organisms from the waters. The ecological damage these Pokémon cause is by far their most destructive characteristic. Neither of these Pokémon leave the water to chase after opponents, though; as long as one stays on dry land, they are unlikely to attack.","Wild Baltoy rarely attack humans, even when provoked. However, they seem to act as sentries of sorts in the desert ruins where they are often found, alerting nearby Claydol of intruders. Claydol themselves are formidable foes; they can fire powerful beams from their arms or spin rapidly to whip up sandstorms. They are very protective of the ruins they inhabit, pursuing those who try to steal artifacts or deface monuments.","Wild Baltoy rarely attack humans, even when provoked. However, they seem to act as sentries of sorts in the desert ruins where they are often found, alerting nearby Claydol of intruders. Claydol themselves are formidable foes; they can fire powerful beams from their arms or spin rapidly to whip up sandstorms. They are very protective of the ruins they inhabit, pursuing those who try to steal artifacts or deface monuments.","Because these Pokémon are both extinct, it is very unlikely that trainers will come across one in the wild. Lileep are mostly harmless as long as swimmers stay away from their tentacle; they cannot entangle what they can’t reach. Cradily move so slowly that they cannot chase after foes. Trainers should be aware, though, that they can secrete a paralyzing acid from their tentacles to hinder opponents.","Because these Pokémon are both extinct, it is very unlikely that trainers will come across one in the wild. Lileep are mostly harmless as long as swimmers stay away from their tentacle; they cannot entangle what they can’t reach. Cradily move so slowly that they cannot chase after foes. Trainers should be aware, though, that they can secrete a paralyzing acid from their tentacles to hinder opponents.","As with all other fossil Pokémon, Anorith and Armaldo are no longer found in the wild, so trainers rarely have to worry about encountering them. Regardless, these Pokémon are surprisingly benign. Anorith will remain hidden between rocks when humans swim by, as they won’t go after foes larger than themselves. Armaldo also prefer to leave people alone; they are hardly aggressive, though they will become anxious if approached.","As with all other fossil Pokémon, Anorith and Armaldo are no longer found in the wild, so trainers rarely have to worry about encountering them. Regardless, these Pokémon are surprisingly benign. Anorith will remain hidden between rocks when humans swim by, as they won’t go after foes larger than themselves. Armaldo also prefer to leave people alone; they are hardly aggressive, though they will become anxious if approached.","Neither of these Pokémon pose a threat to humans. Weak Feebas are unable to even defend themselves when attacked, let alone provoke others. Milotic also embody the very opposite of conflict; their auras soothe aggression, so it is unlikely that fights will break out when around these Pokémon. Trainers lucky enough to spot Milotic in the wild should be thankful for the opportunity to spot such a beautiful Pokémon in its natural habitat.","Neither of these Pokémon pose a threat to humans. Weak Feebas are unable to even defend themselves when attacked, let alone provoke others. Milotic also embody the very opposite of conflict; their auras soothe aggression, so it is unlikely that fights will break out when around these Pokémon. Trainers lucky enough to spot Milotic in the wild should be thankful for the opportunity to spot such a beautiful Pokémon in its natural habitat.","These artificial Pokémon were created by humans and designed to live alongside them. As such, they pose practically no threat to people. Castform are almost never found in the wild, so the vast majority of encounters one will have with them will be with trained individuals. They are a mild-mannered species that dislike conflict. Though they can harness the weather around them to defend themselves with the attack Weather Ball, they usually flee before having to do so.","Kecleon are not particularly dangerous Pokémon in the wild. They do not attack without being provoked, and trainers usually will pass right by them without even noticing. Sometimes, these Pokémon can be minor nuisances when they decide to hide themselves in the middle of major pathways, as they won’t move unless attacked. Kecleon are very possessive Pokémon, however, that will fiercely attack those that try to steal what they have claimed as their own.","Shuppet are mischievous Pokémon that play pranks on passerby to feed on the resulting negative emotions. However, they can easily be scared away by a flashlight. Banette can be more menacing, but rarely attack people unless provoked. According to popular legend, Banette will only attack the children that had abandoned them long ago, cursing them by piercing themselves with needles. One should never unzip the mouth of a Banette; doing so will greatly enrage them.","Shuppet are mischievous Pokémon that play pranks on passerby to feed on the resulting negative emotions. However, they can easily be scared away by a flashlight. Banette can be more menacing, but rarely attack people unless provoked. According to popular legend, Banette will only attack the children that had abandoned them long ago, cursing them by piercing themselves with needles. One should never unzip the mouth of a Banette; doing so will greatly enrage them.","Although Duskull and Dusclops strike fear in the hearts of travelers everywhere, they can easily be scared off with bright light. Duskull may surprise people and cause them to drop their flashlights, however; under no circumstances should one look them directly in their eyes. Dusknoir seem to have their own agendas, only pursuing those that they must. No one has ever been recorded escaping a hounding Dusknoir, who will follow their targets to the ends of the earth.","Although Duskull and Dusclops strike fear in the hearts of travelers everywhere, they can easily be scared off with bright light. Duskull may surprise people and cause them to drop their flashlights, however; under no circumstances should one look them directly in their eyes. Dusknoir seem to have their own agendas, only pursuing those that they must. No one has ever been recorded escaping a hounding Dusknoir, who will follow their targets to the ends of the earth.","These large Pokémon are gentle giants that rarely harm humans. They gladly will share their fruit with strangers, especially human children. They are fiercely protective, however, of the trees that grow their fruit; they will attack those those that try to cut down these trees or harvest all of the fruit without leaving any behind for others. Tropius also release pollen from their necks in the spring that can trigger allergies in some people.","These Pokémon usually do not harm humans. They are not aggressive and will not attack travelers simply for being near them. However, they are a meek species that will quickly become frightened if they feel threatened. Both evolutions can emit shrill earsplitting cries that can deafen enemies; Chingling’s defensive cry is said to be especially discordant, while Chimecho’s is reputed to be wholly unsettling.","Absol are very rarely encountered in the wild. These Pokémon can sense when people are approaching and usually stay far away from people. They are usually only ever encountered when they intentionally are trying to warn people of a disaster. Because of this, seeing an Absol is a good sign that one should turn back and leave immediately. These Pokémon will defend themselves with their horns if necessary, but usually flee from conflict rather than stand their ground.","Roughhousing with either of these Pokémon not recommended, as they will retaliate with proportionally stronger forces. They are also highly protective of their tails; Wobbuffet will even take proactive measures to defend their tails if they feel they may be in danger (something they almost never do). Wynaut will squeeze up against others to play, which may cause bruises. Finally, some people find their repetitive vocalizations irksome, particularly when both Pokémon are together.","These Pokémon are rarely sighted by people, as they dwell in remote, icy areas that are unsuitable for humans. Snorunt are playful creatures that rarely mean any harm; they may approach mountain travelers due to curiosity. Glalie tend to ignore humans entirely, though people should stay away from them because of their freezing abilities. Froslass are rumored to freeze travelers and display their frozen victims in caverns, though no reports of this have been confirmed.","These Pokémon are rarely sighted by people, as they dwell in remote, icy areas that are unsuitable for humans. Snorunt are playful creatures that rarely mean any harm; they may approach mountain travelers due to curiosity. Glalie tend to ignore humans entirely, though people should stay away from them because of their freezing abilities. Froslass are rumored to freeze travelers and display their frozen victims in caverns, though no reports of this have been confirmed.","Spheal and Sealeo are not very hostile towards humans; in fact, they are very playful and curious around strangers. However, these Pokémon are rarely sighted without territorial and aggressive Walrein nearby. Walrein defend their colonies fiercely from outsiders and will not hesitate to charge at aggressors. Groups of these Pokémon are known to stampede when presented with food; they are surprisingly fast on the ice, so travelers should stay wary near large colonies.","Spheal and Sealeo are not very hostile towards humans; in fact, they are very playful and curious around strangers. However, these Pokémon are rarely sighted without territorial and aggressive Walrein nearby. Walrein defend their colonies fiercely from outsiders and will not hesitate to charge at aggressors. Groups of these Pokémon are known to stampede when presented with food; they are surprisingly fast on the ice, so travelers should stay wary near large colonies.","Spheal and Sealeo are not very hostile towards humans; in fact, they are very playful and curious around strangers. However, these Pokémon are rarely sighted without territorial and aggressive Walrein nearby. Walrein defend their colonies fiercely from outsiders and will not hesitate to charge at aggressors. Groups of these Pokémon are known to stampede when presented with food; they are surprisingly fast on the ice, so travelers should stay wary near large colonies.","Clamperl are sessile and don’t directly pose much of a threat to humans. They may clamp onto those that swim too close, however; divers should never approach these Pokémon, or they may risk getting stuck and drowning. Fearsome-looking Huntail are actually rarely sighted at depths suitable for humans; they are also surprisingly timid, fleeing from people. In contrast, Gorebyss are very aggressive and should be avoided; they often try to stab swimmers in tropical waters.","Clamperl are sessile and don’t directly pose much of a threat to humans. They may clamp onto those that swim too close, however; divers should never approach these Pokémon, or they may risk getting stuck and drowning. Fearsome-looking Huntail are actually rarely sighted at depths suitable for humans; they are also surprisingly timid, fleeing from people. In contrast, Gorebyss are very aggressive and should be avoided; they often try to stab swimmers in tropical waters.","Clamperl are sessile and don’t directly pose much of a threat to humans. They may clamp onto those that swim too close, however; divers should never approach these Pokémon, or they may risk getting stuck and drowning. Fearsome-looking Huntail are actually rarely sighted at depths suitable for humans; they are also surprisingly timid, fleeing from people. In contrast, Gorebyss are very aggressive and should be avoided; they often try to stab swimmers in tropical waters.","Trainers should rarely come across wild Relicanth. These rare Pokémon inhabit deep waters where crushing pressures prevent human divers from descending; they are so elusive that they were long thought to be extinct, after all. In the rare instance that one is encountered, it is likely that it will completely ignore nearby humans. If approached or touched, however, it will aggressively ram into the transgressor with Head Smash before swimming away.","Luvdisc pose no threat towards people. In fact, some contend that they are the most harmless Pokémon known to man. Large schools can sometimes pose a small nuisance to boats and submarines, as they may hamper travel as they pass by. Their bright coloration may draw unwanted attention to beachside couples, tinting the water near them in a bright pink. They can cause minor bruises as irked fishermen chuck them out to sea and accidentally hit passing swimmers.","The largest danger Bagon pose to humans results from their frequent dives from above. They don’t pay much attention to what is beneath them before they leap from cliffs and can severely injure unsuspecting travelers below when they land. Salamence will ferociously defend their territories from intruders. Angered individuals will rampage about, spewing fire wherever they go. Only the most experienced trainers should even try to confront an angered Salamence.","The largest danger Bagon pose to humans results from their frequent dives from above. They don’t pay much attention to what is beneath them before they leap from cliffs and can severely injure unsuspecting travelers below when they land. Salamence will ferociously defend their territories from intruders. Angered individuals will rampage about, spewing fire wherever they go. Only the most experienced trainers should even try to confront an angered Salamence.","The largest danger Bagon pose to humans results from their frequent dives from above. They don’t pay much attention to what is beneath them before they leap from cliffs and can severely injure unsuspecting travelers below when they land. Salamence will ferociously defend their territories from intruders. Angered individuals will rampage about, spewing fire wherever they go. Only the most experienced trainers should even try to confront an angered Salamence.","Travelers should stay away from these Pokémon in the wild. Swarms of Beldum are wary of strangers, headbutting them to keep them at bay. Wild Metang and Metagross are protective of their territory. They can easily outwit attackers and stay one step ahead of them in battle. Trainers with Steel-types should recall their Pokémon when traveling in Metagross habitats, as they can be adversely affected by the magnetic forces Metagross and their pre-evolutions exert.","Travelers should stay away from these Pokémon in the wild. Swarms of Beldum are wary of strangers, headbutting them to keep them at bay. Wild Metang and Metagross are protective of their territory. They can easily outwit attackers and stay one step ahead of them in battle. Trainers with Steel-types should recall their Pokémon when traveling in Metagross habitats, as they can be adversely affected by the magnetic forces Metagross and their pre-evolutions exert.","Travelers should stay away from these Pokémon in the wild. Swarms of Beldum are wary of strangers, headbutting them to keep them at bay. Wild Metang and Metagross are protective of their territory. They can easily outwit attackers and stay one step ahead of them in battle. Trainers with Steel-types should recall their Pokémon when traveling in Metagross habitats, as they can be adversely affected by the magnetic forces Metagross and their pre-evolutions exert.","","","","","","","","","","","The Turtwig family is rarely encountered in the wild. They are docile creatures that rarely cause much trouble for humans, however. Turtwig and Grotle dislike fighting and will retreat when confronted. Wild Grotle usually share their Berries with other Pokémon, but are wary of doing so with people. Torterra, however, will defend themselves if attacked. They are also very protective of the plants and Pokémon that dwell on their backs and will defend them with all of their might.","The Turtwig family is rarely encountered in the wild. They are docile creatures that rarely cause much trouble for humans, however. Turtwig and Grotle dislike fighting and will retreat when confronted. Wild Grotle usually share their Berries with other Pokémon, but are wary of doing so with people. Torterra, however, will defend themselves if attacked. They are also very protective of the plants and Pokémon that dwell on their backs and will defend them with all of their might.","The Turtwig family is rarely encountered in the wild. They are docile creatures that rarely cause much trouble for humans, however. Turtwig and Grotle dislike fighting and will retreat when confronted. Wild Grotle usually share their Berries with other Pokémon, but are wary of doing so with people. Torterra, however, will defend themselves if attacked. They are also very protective of the plants and Pokémon that dwell on their backs and will defend them with all of their might.","Chimchar are curious Pokémon that may approach travelers in the wild. They mean no harm, trainers should be wary of their fiery rears, especially since they move so quickly and often. Monferno troops are territorial and will attack if they feel threatened. Travelers should back away slowly if they come across a troop. Infernape are rarely seen by mountain travelers, as they prefer to stay far away from well-traveled roads and will relocate if they hear people approaching.","Chimchar are curious Pokémon that may approach travelers in the wild. They mean no harm, trainers should be wary of their fiery rears, especially since they move so quickly and often. Monferno troops are territorial and will attack if they feel threatened. Travelers should back away slowly if they come across a troop. Infernape are rarely seen by mountain travelers, as they prefer to stay far away from well-traveled roads and will relocate if they hear people approaching.","Chimchar are curious Pokémon that may approach travelers in the wild. They mean no harm, trainers should be wary of their fiery rears, especially since they move so quickly and often. Monferno troops are territorial and will attack if they feel threatened. Travelers should back away slowly if they come across a troop. Infernape are rarely seen by mountain travelers, as they prefer to stay far away from well-traveled roads and will relocate if they hear people approaching.","Piplup don’t pose much of a threat to humans; they rarely approach strangers, though, so wild encounters are rare. All members of this line will attack those that damage their pride, however; they may even strike at those that try to offer them food or sympathy. Prinplup are most likely to retaliate in response to perceived offenses; Empoleon prefer to appear unfazed and walk away from confrontation, as if the offenders are beneath them.","","","Starly may be weak on their own, but they can be formidable in their huge flocks. They can whip up windstorms to defend themselves by flapping in unison. Their shrill cries can also be rather irksome. Staravia flocks are aggressive, hounding foes with their talons and beaks. Travelers should avoid making extended eye contact with wild Staravia to avoid provoking them. Staraptor rarely attack humans unprovoked, but will fiercely retaliate against those that sully their combs.","Starly may be weak on their own, but they can be formidable in their huge flocks. They can whip up windstorms to defend themselves by flapping in unison. Their shrill cries can also be rather irksome. Staravia flocks are aggressive, hounding foes with their talons and beaks. Travelers should avoid making extended eye contact with wild Staravia to avoid provoking them. Staraptor rarely attack humans unprovoked, but will fiercely retaliate against those that sully their combs.","Starly may be weak on their own, but they can be formidable in their huge flocks. They can whip up windstorms to defend themselves by flapping in unison. Their shrill cries can also be rather irksome. Staravia flocks are aggressive, hounding foes with their talons and beaks. Travelers should avoid making extended eye contact with wild Staravia to avoid provoking them. Staraptor rarely attack humans unprovoked, but will fiercely retaliate against those that sully their combs.","These Pokémon are docile and don’t pose much of a threat to humans. They are unfazed when approached by travelers, ignoring them in favor of continuing their work. Lone Bidoof can be skittish if cornered, however; they will bite aggressors if they feel threatened. These Pokémon are protective of their families and will come to the aid of their relatives if they hear their calls of distress. They may strategically fell trees around or onto attackers in order to keep them at bay.","These Pokémon are docile and don’t pose much of a threat to humans. They are unfazed when approached by travelers, ignoring them in favor of continuing their work. Lone Bidoof can be skittish if cornered, however; they will bite aggressors if they feel threatened. These Pokémon are protective of their families and will come to the aid of their relatives if they hear their calls of distress. They may strategically fell trees around or onto attackers in order to keep them at bay.","Kricketot aren’t very dangerous Pokémon; other than potentially producing uncomfortably loud calls, they don’t have many ways of defending themselves against threats. Kricketune, however, are far more capable of taking down threats with their sharp arms. Kricketune in the middle of conducting symphonies greatly dislike being interrupted and will attack those that disturb them or their performers.","Kricketot aren’t very dangerous Pokémon; other than potentially producing uncomfortably loud calls, they don’t have many ways of defending themselves against threats. Kricketune, however, are far more capable of taking down threats with their sharp arms. Kricketune in the middle of conducting symphonies greatly dislike being interrupted and will attack those that disturb them or their performers.","Shinx are not very skilled at using their electrical powers, but this doesn’t mean that they are completely helpless. They can illuminate their fur brightly to temporarily blind threats and call for help from their relatives. Luxio, the most confrontational of the line, will defend their prides with their electrified claws. Luxray rarely get involved in disputes, but will defend their families ferociously. Their x-ray vision enables them to track down enemies cowering behind trees and rocks.","Shinx are not very skilled at using their electrical powers, but this doesn’t mean that they are completely helpless. They can illuminate their fur brightly to temporarily blind threats and call for help from their relatives. Luxio, the most confrontational of the line, will defend their prides with their electrified claws. Luxray rarely get involved in disputes, but will defend their families ferociously. Their x-ray vision enables them to track down enemies cowering behind trees and rocks.","Shinx are not very skilled at using their electrical powers, but this doesn’t mean that they are completely helpless. They can illuminate their fur brightly to temporarily blind threats and call for help from their relatives. Luxio, the most confrontational of the line, will defend their prides with their electrified claws. Luxray rarely get involved in disputes, but will defend their families ferociously. Their x-ray vision enables them to track down enemies cowering behind trees and rocks.","Although they look beautiful, these Pokémon are toxic and should not be approached. Budew can spray toxic pollen that may trigger allergy attacks or launch anxiety-inducing, hallucinogenic seeds. Roselia and Roserade can inject different toxins into attackers with their thorns, which can cause excruciating pain or even paralyze. Roserade also conceal thorny whips in their flowers that  they can expertly wield against foes. ","Although they look beautiful, these Pokémon are toxic and should not be approached. Budew can spray toxic pollen that may trigger allergy attacks or launch anxiety-inducing, hallucinogenic seeds. Roselia and Roserade can inject different toxins into attackers with their thorns, which can cause excruciating pain or even paralyze. Roserade also conceal thorny whips in their flowers that  they can expertly wield against foes. ","These Pokémon are extinct in the wild, so it is unlikely for the average trainer to come across one in an uncontrolled setting. Both Cranidos and Rampardos will charge at threats as soon as they feel threatened; they usually lose track of targets that stay perfectly still, however. Throwing branches or stones to create distractions in another location is also an effective tactic to deceive these Pokémon.","These Pokémon are extinct in the wild, so it is unlikely for the average trainer to come across one in an uncontrolled setting. Both Cranidos and Rampardos will charge at threats as soon as they feel threatened; they usually lose track of targets that stay perfectly still, however. Throwing branches or stones to create distractions in another location is also an effective tactic to deceive these Pokémon.","As resurrected fossil Pokémon, wild Shieldon and Bastiodon essentially don’t exist in the modern world. Even so, these Pokémon are not at all aggressive; when they feel that they are in danger, they will cluster together with their heads facing outwards to protect their vulnerable rears. Spooked herds may stampede in any direction, however, with little regard for what is in their way. ","As resurrected fossil Pokémon, wild Shieldon and Bastiodon essentially don’t exist in the modern world. Even so, these Pokémon are not at all aggressive; when they feel that they are in danger, they will cluster together with their heads facing outwards to protect their vulnerable rears. Spooked herds may stampede in any direction, however, with little regard for what is in their way. ","None of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to humans. Burmy in particular are rather weak and defenseless, which is why they prefer to hide away from others. Wormadam also will try to conceal themselves when exposed and usually don’t try to attack threats. Mothim are the most confrontational member of the family, but even so, they are usually only aggressive during the mating season.","None of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to humans. Burmy in particular are rather weak and defenseless, which is why they prefer to hide away from others. Wormadam also will try to conceal themselves when exposed and usually don’t try to attack threats. Mothim are the most confrontational member of the family, but even so, they are usually only aggressive during the mating season.","None of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to humans. Burmy in particular are rather weak and defenseless, which is why they prefer to hide away from others. Wormadam also will try to conceal themselves when exposed and usually don’t try to attack threats. Mothim are the most confrontational member of the family, but even so, they are usually only aggressive during the mating season.","Lone Combee are very weak and defenseless; however, they can be a formidable threat in large swarms, beating their wings together in unison to attack foes with Gust or Bug Buzz. Their can interlock their hexagonal bodies to form defensive walls; when faced with extreme threats, they may sacrifice themselves to trap the foe with their bodies until the queen Vespiquen arrives. Vespiquen themselves can command their grubs and Combee to protect them via pheromones.","Lone Combee are very weak and defenseless; however, they can be a formidable threat in large swarms, beating their wings together in unison to attack foes with Gust or Bug Buzz. Their can interlock their hexagonal bodies to form defensive walls; when faced with extreme threats, they may sacrifice themselves to trap the foe with their bodies until the queen Vespiquen arrives. Vespiquen themselves can command their grubs and Combee to protect them via pheromones.","Although cute and not immediately wary of humans, wild Pachirisu should not be approached. They are skittish and will either flee or defend themselves if they feel threatened; their electrified fur can shock those that touch them, and they may whip their bushy tails—which are especially charged with static electricity—at threats to stun them. They can also throw charged furballs at opponents from a distance or drop them from above in order to keep enemies at bay.","These Pokémon rarely attack humans, preferring to use their speed to escape danger. They are also friendly and level-headed, even during conflict. Both Pokémon can be nuisances to anglers, however, as they are smart enough to wait for fish to bite onto lures before snatching the catches away as their own. It is customary to feed resident Floatzel before fishing in a river to encourage them to stay around in the event an angler falls in and needs rescuing.","These Pokémon rarely attack humans, preferring to use their speed to escape danger. They are also friendly and level-headed, even during conflict. Both Pokémon can be nuisances to anglers, however, as they are smart enough to wait for fish to bite onto lures before snatching the catches away as their own. It is customary to feed resident Floatzel before fishing in a river to encourage them to stay around in the event an angler falls in and needs rescuing.","Cherubi are not very dangerous Pokémon, as they cannot do much to defend themselves without wasting the precious energy they are trying to conserve. Overcast Form Cherrim do not react to threats, instead choosing to hide in the treetops to avoid being seen. In their Sunshine Forms, though, these small Pokémon can be very formidable threats that can harness light into attacks like Solar Beam. They are usually friendly creatures, though, that will only attack if attacked first.","Cherubi are not very dangerous Pokémon, as they cannot do much to defend themselves without wasting the precious energy they are trying to conserve. Overcast Form Cherrim do not react to threats, instead choosing to hide in the treetops to avoid being seen. In their Sunshine Forms, though, these small Pokémon can be very formidable threats that can harness light into attacks like Solar Beam. They are usually friendly creatures, though, that will only attack if attacked first.","These Pokémon prefer to flee from confrontation if given the chance, though they are not particularly speedy. When touched or gripped, they will ooze a slippery purple fluid from their skin that not only allows them to escape attackers, but also lubricates their bodies so they can more easily slide into rocky crevices for protection. This fluid can cause mild to moderate irritation if left on the skin for prolonged periods of time.","These Pokémon prefer to flee from confrontation if given the chance, though they are not particularly speedy. When touched or gripped, they will ooze a slippery purple fluid from their skin that not only allows them to escape attackers, but also lubricates their bodies so they can more easily slide into rocky crevices for protection. This fluid can cause mild to moderate irritation if left on the skin for prolonged periods of time.","These Pokémon are normally friendly, if a bit mischievous. They may sometimes steal the hats of travelers passing underneath for fun, but will usually return them once they become bored. They will toss the husks and shells of fruits and nuts that they shuck aimlessly, sometimes hitting unwary people and Pokémon below. Trainers should be wary that angering a single Pokémon will anger the whole colony, making all of the members irate and aggressive.","Although many popular legends warn of Drifloon and their penchant for whisking young children away to the land of the dead, it would take a large group of these Pokémon to lift a small child. Drifblim rarely interact with humans, instead electing to float solemnly high up in the sky. In the rare chance that they feel threatened, however, they can summon attacks like Ominous Wind to take down opponents.","Although many popular legends warn of Drifloon and their penchant for whisking young children away to the land of the dead, it would take a large group of these Pokémon to lift a small child. Drifblim rarely interact with humans, instead electing to float solemnly high up in the sky. In the rare chance that they feel threatened, however, they can summon attacks like Ominous Wind to take down opponents.","Both of these Pokémon are skittish and easily spooked; though they will try to run from opponents using their great agility, they can launch very strong attacks if cornered. Buneary can strike foes with their ears, leaving bruises and even broken bones. Lopunny can quickly and powerfully kick opponents in rapid succession before leaping away; they usually aim for the head and can cause severe trauma, so these Pokémon should not be approached or startled.","Both of these Pokémon are skittish and easily spooked; though they will try to run from opponents using their great agility, they can launch very strong attacks if cornered. Buneary can strike foes with their ears, leaving bruises and even broken bones. Lopunny can quickly and powerfully kick opponents in rapid succession before leaping away; they usually aim for the head and can cause severe trauma, so these Pokémon should not be approached or startled.","Misdreavus are tricksters and have many ways of scaring forest travelers; carrying a torch or flashlight is recommended to keep them at bay. Their shrieks can be heard from far away, however, so trainers should cover their ears as soon as they hear them to block out their unnerving cries. Mismagius tend to ignore humans. They may curse those that anger them with hallucinations or headaches using their incantations, however; light sources will also ward off wild Mismagius.","Murkrow are often seen as bad omens; they are known to steal objects from travelers in forests and lead them astray. They will often try to steal shiny items from people, including rings, necklaces, and other forms of jewelry. If threatened, Murkrow will attack in flocks with their beaks and talons. Though Honchkrow are capable of being very threatening alone, they rarely attack; instead will, they order their Murkrow cronies to overwhelm those that annoy them.","Both Pokémon will not hesitate to claw at trainers that displease them; pet Glameow are often declawed to alleviate this. Even so, they may try to bite those around them when unhappy. Purugly will barge into homes unannounced and destroy everything around them. One should not confront a stray Purugly, as it will attack upon eye contact; calling Pokémon control services is a safer option. Making eye contact with Glameow is also ill-advised due to their hypnotic effect.","Both Pokémon will not hesitate to claw at trainers that displease them; pet Glameow are often declawed to alleviate this. Even so, they may try to bite those around them when unhappy. Purugly will barge into homes unannounced and destroy everything around them. One should not confront a stray Purugly, as it will attack upon eye contact; calling Pokémon control services is a safer option. Making eye contact with Glameow is also ill-advised due to their hypnotic effect.","These Pokémon usually do not harm humans. They are not aggressive and will not attack travelers simply for being near them. However, they are a meek species that will quickly become frightened if they feel threatened. Both evolutions can emit shrill earsplitting cries that can deafen enemies; Chingling’s defensive cry is said to be especially discordant, while Chimecho’s is reputed to be wholly unsettling.","Trainers should not approach these Pokémon in the wild unless they wish to be sprayed. Stunky will first stomp their feet, then hiss, and then finally raise their tails before spraying, giving threats plenty of time to back away and escape unharmed. Skuntank are much less judicious when it comes to spraying, however; most Poké Marts carry Skuntank deodorant to neutralize the smell. Though putrid, the compound is not particularly harmful upon contact.","Trainers should not approach these Pokémon in the wild unless they wish to be sprayed. Stunky will first stomp their feet, then hiss, and then finally raise their tails before spraying, giving threats plenty of time to back away and escape unharmed. Skuntank are much less judicious when it comes to spraying, however; most Poké Marts carry Skuntank deodorant to neutralize the smell. Though putrid, the compound is not particularly harmful upon contact.","These Pokémon don’t seem to be much of a threat to humans. Individuals seem to ignore people entirely, even when directly approached. Bronzong dislike being rung by others; it is said that doing so will anger a Bronzong so much that it will prevent rainfall for seven years. These Pokémon also act oddly around fire; Bronzor will begin spinning around and Bronzong will ring themselves repeatedly. It is unknown whether this behavior is aggressive, but most find it very unsettling.","These Pokémon don’t seem to be much of a threat to humans. Individuals seem to ignore people entirely, even when directly approached. Bronzong dislike being rung by others; it is said that doing so will anger a Bronzong so much that it will prevent rainfall for seven years. These Pokémon also act oddly around fire; Bronzor will begin spinning around and Bronzong will ring themselves repeatedly. It is unknown whether this behavior is aggressive, but most find it very unsettling.","Approaching or attempting to uproot hiding Bonsly from the soil is a bad idea. When frightened, they will throw their heavy bodies at their attackers, which can result in broken bones. Sudowoodo will also charge blindly in any direction to escape water. Though easily scared, these Pokémon are otherwise rather docile and are not aggressive towards humans; most injuries involving them result from unwary gardeners watering them and being tackled as they flee.","Living alongside humans, neither Mime Jr. nor Mr. Mime pose much of a threat to people. Mime Jr. are known to target people they sense are benevolent when performing for food, a skill that makes them popular among beggars. Mr. Mime will become angry if their performances are interrupted, slapping offenders with their huge hands. Their invisible walls can also be nuisances in crowded streets, though most Mr. Mime know that blocking traffic won’t help them earn food.","These Pokémon are practically the opposite of dangerous, considering that they are staples in hospitals and Pokémon Centers in multiple regions. None of them are aggressive or territorial in the least. Trainers should note, however, that Happiny are baby Pokémon and can be moody from time to time. They are stronger than they look and may throw their stones during tantrums. They are also known to unwittingly walk between the feet of people and accidentally trip them.","Trainers should note that Chatot will indeed copy nearly any sound they hear: banging pots, crying infants, spousal bickering (which can be particularly irritating if exact phrases are repeated verbatim), and so on. In the wild, these Pokémon can squawk at volumes high enough to cause temporary deafness if threatened; they are also surprisingly scrappy fighters that will use their beaks and talons to defend themselves, sometimes even doing so before trying to fly away.","If one comes across an errant Odd Keystone, one should just let it be. Only the most advanced trainers should even attempt to approach it, as Spiritomb are wildly destructive within their radii. An Odd Keystone should never be moved unless the Spiritomb is being caught; it is said these Pokémon can control those with impure hearts, so those unsure of their own morality should not approach them. Under absolutely no circumstances should one ever destroy an Odd Keystone.","To put it bluntly, these Pokémon are rather terrifying. Gible are the least threatening of the line, but even they will bite with little provocation. Territorial Gabite viciously defend their gem hoards from anyone that even comes moderately close to them. Garchomp are thankfully rare in the wild, but they are also very aggressive and can fly at Mach speeds. Yache Berries are very strongly advised when traveling through their territory.","To put it bluntly, these Pokémon are rather terrifying. Gible are the least threatening of the line, but even they will bite with little provocation. Territorial Gabite viciously defend their gem hoards from anyone that even comes moderately close to them. Garchomp are thankfully rare in the wild, but they are also very aggressive and can fly at Mach speeds. Yache Berries are very strongly advised when traveling through their territory.","To put it bluntly, these Pokémon are rather terrifying. Gible are the least threatening of the line, but even they will bite with little provocation. Territorial Gabite viciously defend their gem hoards from anyone that even comes moderately close to them. Garchomp are thankfully rare in the wild, but they are also very aggressive and can fly at Mach speeds. Yache Berries are very strongly advised when traveling through their territory.","Munchlax will squeeze themselves through open windows and pet doors to make their ways into houses, where they will proceed to eat everything edible that they can find. Snorlax are infamous for falling asleep in the middle of pathways, blocking roads. They can be awoken peacefully by the sound of Poké Flutes. Trainers are advised to not attempt to wake them in other ways, as they will become very aggressive when disturbed through other methods.","These Pokémon rarely ever come into direct conflict with humans. Because they can sense the auras of those around them from a distance, they can detect hostile beings well before they come near. Riolu usually stay away from humans entirely, but Lucario can sometimes appear when they sense distress to help those in danger. Those that mean harm should not approach these Pokémon; Lucario will attack those with malicious auras, defending their loved ones fiercely.","These Pokémon rarely ever come into direct conflict with humans. Because they can sense the auras of those around them from a distance, they can detect hostile beings well before they come near. Riolu usually stay away from humans entirely, but Lucario can sometimes appear when they sense distress to help those in danger. Those that mean harm should not approach these Pokémon; Lucario will attack those with malicious auras, defending their loved ones fiercely.","Hippopotas are actually rather docile Pokémon; they may whip up sandstorms to cloak themselves from enemies, but otherwise prefer to hide from threats rather than confront them. Hippowdon, however, are extremely aggressive. In fact, they are the most common cause of injuries amongst desert travelers. One should never make eye contact with these irate Pokémon. Backing slowly away with one’s head down hopefully should be enough to keep them at bay.","Hippopotas are actually rather docile Pokémon; they may whip up sandstorms to cloak themselves from enemies, but otherwise prefer to hide from threats rather than confront them. Hippowdon, however, are extremely aggressive. In fact, they are the most common cause of injuries amongst desert travelers. One should never make eye contact with these irate Pokémon. Backing slowly away with one’s head down hopefully should be enough to keep them at bay.","Trainers should exercise great caution around these Pokémon. Skorupi are not aggressive; in fact, they are quite skittish and will flee or burrow into the substrate if attacked. They are ambush attackers that won’t reveal themselves unless they feel immediately threatened. Drapion, though, are extremely aggressive and territorial. They will stop chasing foes that exit the boundaries of their domains, however. Regardless, Antidotes are a necessity when crossing Drapion land.","Trainers should exercise great caution around these Pokémon. Skorupi are not aggressive; in fact, they are quite skittish and will flee or burrow into the substrate if attacked. They are ambush attackers that won’t reveal themselves unless they feel immediately threatened. Drapion, though, are extremely aggressive and territorial. They will stop chasing foes that exit the boundaries of their domains, however. Regardless, Antidotes are a necessity when crossing Drapion land.","Although these Pokémon are highly poisonous, they thankfully are not at all aggressive. They will entirely ignore travelers unless they are directly attacked; when in danger, however, they are dirty fighters that will immediately go for their opponents’ vulnerable areas. Their poison is extremely potent, and one should seek immediate medical attention if they even so much as touch one of these creatures.","Although these Pokémon are highly poisonous, they thankfully are not at all aggressive. They will entirely ignore travelers unless they are directly attacked; when in danger, however, they are dirty fighters that will immediately go for their opponents’ vulnerable areas. Their poison is extremely potent, and one should seek immediate medical attention if they even so much as touch one of these creatures.","Many people seem to have an irrational fear of these Pokémon, as they dwell in temperate forests and ambush from above. It should be reassuring to know that Carnivine rarely try to clamp onto humans, as they are far too large; trying to snap would only waste precious energy. They are also passive Pokémon that don’t immediately lash out at threats; instead, they try to remain perfectly still to avoid detection.","Finneon are almost always found in large schools; trainers will most likely sight them near coral reefs, as the average person will not likely explore the trenches these Pokémon and their evolutions call home. They are not dangerous, even in large numbers; when attacked, they will swim away, flapping their tail fins and flashing their lights to confuse attackers. Lumineon can use attacks like Silver Wind to defend themselves, but usually choose to avoid confrontation entirely. ","Finneon are almost always found in large schools; trainers will most likely sight them near coral reefs, as the average person will not likely explore the trenches these Pokémon and their evolutions call home. They are not dangerous, even in large numbers; when attacked, they will swim away, flapping their tail fins and flashing their lights to confuse attackers. Lumineon can use attacks like Silver Wind to defend themselves, but usually choose to avoid confrontation entirely. ","Mantyke are very friendly; even wild ones will approach humans with little fear. However, they are also large and heavy, especially for a baby Pokémon; some people have been knocked off their surfboards and kayaks after being tackled by overeager Mantyke. Mantine are gentle giants and seem to completely ignore boats or swimming humans. However, they cannot easily stop after launching themselves into the air, so sailors should be cautious of “flying” schools of Mantine. ","It is unlikely for a trainer to see a wild Abomasnow in the wild, but it is more than possible for one to experience the howling blizzards they summon to cloak themselves. Abomasnow territory is bleak and barren, permanently shrouded in furious snowstorms. Only advanced trainers should attempt to scale the frozen peaks they dwell on. Snover are inquisitive, but harmless; they can unintentionally cause trouble when they cloak themselves in snow flurries, however.","It is unlikely for a trainer to see a wild Abomasnow in the wild, but it is more than possible for one to experience the howling blizzards they summon to cloak themselves. Abomasnow territory is bleak and barren, permanently shrouded in furious snowstorms. Only advanced trainers should attempt to scale the frozen peaks they dwell on. Snover are inquisitive, but harmless; they can unintentionally cause trouble when they cloak themselves in snow flurries, however.","Wild Sneasel and Weavile should be treated with much caution, as they are agile Pokémon with sharp claws. There have been recorded incidents of Weavile packs going after weary mountain travelers. Strength in numbers is the best defense against Weavile; even the strongest lone fighter can be overwhelmed by an entire pack. These Pokémon dislike extended fights, and will flee if they cannot take down their target quickly enough.","Other than the standard warnings of electrocution that come with most Electric-type Pokémon, the primary source of concern regarding these Pokémon stems not from their danger to humans, but rather to electronic devices. They are known to siphon electrical energy from power lines and generators. Additionally, the magnetic fields they generate can cause devices to malfunction. The radio waves Magneton emit can dry the air and cause earaches in some people. ","Both Pokémon will lick foreign objects to learn about them, as they retain information based on tastes and textures. Lickitung saliva can cause numbing that will wear off in a few minutes, but Lickilicky saliva can cause numbing or even rashes that likely won’t go away without medical treatment; neither cause any serious side effects, however (except in the case of an allergic reaction). Lickilicky are known to constrict prey with their tongues, but almost never try this tactic on humans.","All members of this line are aggressive, but Rhyhorn are by far the most belligerent, charging on sight of unfamiliar objects. Their horns are sharp enough to pierce diamond; though trained racing Rhyhorn often have them dulled, their heavy weights still make them dangerous when angered. Rhydon and Rhyperior can also sweep foes with their heavy tails when angered, and can easily break bones with well-placed swings; luckily, they usually only attack when angered.","Obviously, the most pressing dangers these Pokémon possess are their copious vines. Trainers should stay wary in dense jungles, as these Pokémon often hide in bushes to snare passerby. Though Tangela are more annoying than threatening, they can still be dangerous if they happen to constrict the neck (though they more often go for the feet); Tangrowth are more hazardous, but will not hold on to large prey that struggle too much and will instead break off their vines.","All Pokémon in this line can deliver high-voltage shocks. Trainers should never stick their hands between an Elekid’s prongs, as an electric current will run through them whenever it charges. Electabuzz and Electivire are aggressive and will sometimes give chase if threatened. Touching an Electabuzz’s or Electivire’s horns or the latter’s twin tails is also not recommended. These Pokémon can also cause power outages if they drain too much electricity from a generator.","As Pokémon that can expel searing-hot flames, trainers should naturally be extremely careful around them. Luckily, they generally inhabit the craters of active volcanoes, where few trainers would be able to venture anyways. Additionally, they are not aggressive or even territorial. Despite this, travelers should give any stray individuals they come across a wide berth, as both Magmar and Magmortar can radiate significant heat even while standing still.","There have been no documented cases of these Pokémon harming or even attempting to harm humans. At most, the crying of young Togepi can be very irritating for those nearby, as the sound’s frequency is rather close to that of the crying of human children. In an unpleasant cycle, the annoyance of those around them makes Togepi cry even more. Overdosing on joy dust has been known to trigger effects similar to those achieved through consumption of MDMA.","Yanma can be a bit curious when it comes to humans, and are usually only aggressive towards other Yanma. They should not be trifled with, however, as they can create shock waves that can permanently damage hearing and shatter glass. Yanmega, on the other hand, are aggressive; their shock waves can break bones and their jaws can easily tear off limbs. These Pokémon are strong enough to carry away adult humans and should be treated with extreme caution.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Neither of these Pokémon are the safest Pokémon for trainers to raise, but they can be very affectionate with those they trust. Trainers should obviously be careful around their pincers and stingers. Wild Gligar are known to attack the faces of trainers passing nearby, so travelers should be wary when passing through their nesting areas. Gliscor are large enough to attack small Pokémon and trainers; they navigate by echolocation and can be disoriented with high-pitched whistles.","Swinub are not aggressive, but will charge recklessly towards the smell of food and can trip unwary travelers who happen to be carrying snacks. Piloswine act similarly, but are much heavier; they can cause significant injuries in a collision. They will also charge if they feel threatened or frightened by sounds they cannot locate the source of. Wild Mamoswine are rarely encountered by trainers; they are not aggressive, but will charge violently when angered or spooked.","Neither Porygon nor Porygon2 pose any particular threat to humans in the real world. Famously, there was an incident in which a Porygon in a computer caused the screen to flash violently, triggering seizures in the children watching it. The bug has never reoccured, though the event scared much of the public away from training Porygon. Porygon-Z can be uncontrollable when glitching and may attack recklessly while doing so.","Ralts will teleport away from those who they sense are aggressive; consequently, they are almost never seen by those who mean to cause it harm. Kirlia can distort space to create illusions, though it never does this to hurt others. Gardevoir and Gallade will lay down their lives to protect their trainers; Gallade will also challenge those who dishonor it to the death. It is difficult to truly anger either of these Pokémon, however, so dangerous situations almost never arise with them.","As one would expect, these Pokémon should be kept far away from anything metallic and valuable. They don’t actively seek to harm humans, but may attempt to draw in bicycles or even cars with magnetism fir their iron even as people are riding them. Compasses will malfunction when near these Pokémon; although they always point north, it can be extremely confusing when one is close enough to notice its effects on one’s compass without actually being able to see them.","Although Duskull and Dusclops strike fear in the hearts of travelers everywhere, they can easily be scared off with bright light. Duskull may surprise people and cause them to drop their flashlights, however; under no circumstances should one look them directly in their eyes. Dusknoir seem to have their own agendas, only pursuing those that they must. No one has ever been recorded escaping a hounding Dusknoir, who will follow their targets to the ends of the earth.","These Pokémon are rarely sighted by people, as they dwell in remote, icy areas that are unsuitable for humans. Snorunt are playful creatures that rarely mean any harm; they may approach mountain travelers due to curiosity. Glalie tend to ignore humans entirely, though people should stay away from them because of their freezing abilities. Froslass are rumored to freeze travelers and display their frozen victims in caverns, though no reports of this have been confirmed.","Wild Rotom are impish spirits that love to spook others. They can cause lights to flicker and machines to abruptly turn off or whirl to life, seemingly on their own. On devices with screens, they can project their grinning faces to scare people and Pokémon. However, they rarely mean to cause any actual harm; these Pokémon will quickly leave if they fail to successfully scare their attempted victims.","","","","","","","","","","Phione are not at all dangerous Pokémon, even in the large groups that they are often found in. They don’t seem capable of defending themselves from attackers; regardless, these Pokémon rarely ever appear to draw the ire of predators. For reasons unknown, wild Pokémon leave groups of floating Phione alone, and swimmers that come across them similarly report feeling a desire to let them be.","","","","","","These Pokémon are rare in the wild, and the few individuals that are encountered almost never bother to give people the time of day. They will actively ignore even travelers that directly approach them, literally turning up their heads at them. If attacked, however, they can unleash their energy in powerful attacks like Leaf Tornado. They also will become angered and lash out at those who dirty their pristine leaves.","These Pokémon are rare in the wild, and the few individuals that are encountered almost never bother to give people the time of day. They will actively ignore even travelers that directly approach them, literally turning up their heads at them. If attacked, however, they can unleash their energy in powerful attacks like Leaf Tornado. They also will become angered and lash out at those who dirty their pristine leaves.","These Pokémon are rare in the wild, and the few individuals that are encountered almost never bother to give people the time of day. They will actively ignore even travelers that directly approach them, literally turning up their heads at them. If attacked, however, they can unleash their energy in powerful attacks like Leaf Tornado. They also will become angered and lash out at those who dirty their pristine leaves.","Tepig are easily spooked; they will respond to threats by snorting out fire from their nostrils before fleeing. Their evolutions are not territorial, however; in fact, they are actually rather friendly even towards strangers. Emboar are very protective of their friends, however. They will stand in front of smaller Pokémon to defend them when they sense danger; trainers should back away if they see a wild Emboar assuming this stance.","Tepig are easily spooked; they will respond to threats by snorting out fire from their nostrils before fleeing. Their evolutions are not territorial, however; in fact, they are actually rather friendly even towards strangers. Emboar are very protective of their friends, however. They will stand in front of smaller Pokémon to defend them when they sense danger; trainers should back away if they see a wild Emboar assuming this stance.","Tepig are easily spooked; they will respond to threats by snorting out fire from their nostrils before fleeing. Their evolutions are not territorial, however; in fact, they are actually rather friendly even towards strangers. Emboar are very protective of their friends, however. They will stand in front of smaller Pokémon to defend them when they sense danger; trainers should back away if they see a wild Emboar assuming this stance.","Oshawott will initially stand their ground when approached, but they will cower and flee if the threat doesn’t back down. Dewott, on the other hand, are initially not bothered by travelers, who they will let pass through their territory with no issues. They will quickly retaliate with their scalchops as soon as they are attacked, however. Samurott will fiercely defend their loved ones with their horns and seamitars; they will glare at foes before attacking, warning them to back off.","Oshawott will initially stand their ground when approached, but they will cower and flee if the threat doesn’t back down. Dewott, on the other hand, are initially not bothered by travelers, who they will let pass through their territory with no issues. They will quickly retaliate with their scalchops as soon as they are attacked, however. Samurott will fiercely defend their loved ones with their horns and seamitars; they will glare at foes before attacking, warning them to back off.","Oshawott will initially stand their ground when approached, but they will cower and flee if the threat doesn’t back down. Dewott, on the other hand, are initially not bothered by travelers, who they will let pass through their territory with no issues. They will quickly retaliate with their scalchops as soon as they are attacked, however. Samurott will fiercely defend their loved ones with their horns and seamitars; they will glare at foes before attacking, warning them to back off.","These Pokémon are very protective of their groups. Patrat are defensive in the face of danger; when one guard Patrat is spooked, it will alert the rest of its mob to hide underground, waiting for the threat to pass. Watchog, however, are more offensive. The first Watchog to spot an enemy will glow brightly, temporarily blinding it with a flash of light; its allies will quickly stuff seeds into their mouths to shoot at the attacker until it flees.","These Pokémon are very protective of their groups. Patrat are defensive in the face of danger; when one guard Patrat is spooked, it will alert the rest of its mob to hide underground, waiting for the threat to pass. Watchog, however, are more offensive. The first Watchog to spot an enemy will glow brightly, temporarily blinding it with a flash of light; its allies will quickly stuff seeds into their mouths to shoot at the attacker until it flees.","These Pokémon are not dangerous to humans, even in the wild. They have a innate instinct to be friendly towards people; Lillipup may approach travelers while yipping and wagging their tails, inviting them to play. They are protective of their own trainers and friends, however, and trained ones may display signs of aggression towards strangers that approach their loved ones; bared fangs and low-pitched growls are examples of such signs.","These Pokémon are not dangerous to humans, even in the wild. They have a innate instinct to be friendly towards people; Lillipup may approach travelers while yipping and wagging their tails, inviting them to play. They are protective of their own trainers and friends, however, and trained ones may display signs of aggression towards strangers that approach their loved ones; bared fangs and low-pitched growls are examples of such signs.","These Pokémon are not dangerous to humans, even in the wild. They have a innate instinct to be friendly towards people; Lillipup may approach travelers while yipping and wagging their tails, inviting them to play. They are protective of their own trainers and friends, however, and trained ones may display signs of aggression towards strangers that approach their loved ones; bared fangs and low-pitched growls are examples of such signs.","If one comes across a Purrloin that seems injured or hungry on the street, one should pay closer attention. These Pokémon will feign desperation to appeal to compassionate passerby only to steal their valuables when they try to help. Both Purrloin and Liepard also are equipped with sharp claws to slash foes with. Though Liepard will not bother attacking unless they are attacked first, Purrloin may scratch those standing in their way as they try to flee after a successful heist.","If one comes across a Purrloin that seems injured or hungry on the street, one should pay closer attention. These Pokémon will feign desperation to appeal to compassionate passerby only to steal their valuables when they try to help. Both Purrloin and Liepard also are equipped with sharp claws to slash foes with. Though Liepard will not bother attacking unless they are attacked first, Purrloin may scratch those standing in their way as they try to flee after a successful heist.","The initial stages of each of these lines are docile and even friendly towards humans. Pansage and Simisear are particularly benevolent, offering food to passing travelers. Simisage should not be approached, however; they can become aggressive with little notice even with no earlier signs of hostility. While it takes a lot to anger Simisear and Simipour, both Pokémon will become upset if one damages the Berry trees and bushes they forage from.","The initial stages of each of these lines are docile and even friendly towards humans. Pansage and Simisear are particularly benevolent, offering food to passing travelers. Simisage should not be approached, however; they can become aggressive with little notice even with no earlier signs of hostility. While it takes a lot to anger Simisear and Simipour, both Pokémon will become upset if one damages the Berry trees and bushes they forage from.","The initial stages of each of these lines are docile and even friendly towards humans. Pansage and Simisear are particularly benevolent, offering food to passing travelers. Simisage should not be approached, however; they can become aggressive with little notice even with no earlier signs of hostility. While it takes a lot to anger Simisear and Simipour, both Pokémon will become upset if one damages the Berry trees and bushes they forage from.","The initial stages of each of these lines are docile and even friendly towards humans. Pansage and Simisear are particularly benevolent, offering food to passing travelers. Simisage should not be approached, however; they can become aggressive with little notice even with no earlier signs of hostility. While it takes a lot to anger Simisear and Simipour, both Pokémon will become upset if one damages the Berry trees and bushes they forage from.","The initial stages of each of these lines are docile and even friendly towards humans. Pansage and Simisear are particularly benevolent, offering food to passing travelers. Simisage should not be approached, however; they can become aggressive with little notice even with no earlier signs of hostility. While it takes a lot to anger Simisear and Simipour, both Pokémon will become upset if one damages the Berry trees and bushes they forage from.","The initial stages of each of these lines are docile and even friendly towards humans. Pansage and Simisear are particularly benevolent, offering food to passing travelers. Simisage should not be approached, however; they can become aggressive with little notice even with no earlier signs of hostility. While it takes a lot to anger Simisear and Simipour, both Pokémon will become upset if one damages the Berry trees and bushes they forage from.","These Pokémon are usually not dangerous towards humans. They stay away from conscious beings, hiding themselves in Dream Mist. Those that approach them and inhale the mist will quickly fall asleep, allowing these Pokémon to escape. According to popular folklore, people that wish to remember their dreams should hang nets over their windows or beds to keep Munna and Musharna away; oddly enough, this seems to be a relatively effective tactic.","These Pokémon are usually not dangerous towards humans. They stay away from conscious beings, hiding themselves in Dream Mist. Those that approach them and inhale the mist will quickly fall asleep, allowing these Pokémon to escape. According to popular folklore, people that wish to remember their dreams should hang nets over their windows or beds to keep Munna and Musharna away; oddly enough, this seems to be a relatively effective tactic.","Pidove are hardly dangerous, even in their large flocks; they will fly away when they sense danger rather than attacking. Tranqill also dislike conflict and will try to stay away from others in general; they will lash out with their beaks and talons if harassed, however. Unfezant are the most aggressive of the line, especially during mating season. Males may attempt to strut in front of and peck other males, both travelers and Pokémon to “emasculate” them in front of potential mates.","Pidove are hardly dangerous, even in their large flocks; they will fly away when they sense danger rather than attacking. Tranqill also dislike conflict and will try to stay away from others in general; they will lash out with their beaks and talons if harassed, however. Unfezant are the most aggressive of the line, especially during mating season. Males may attempt to strut in front of and peck other males, both travelers and Pokémon to “emasculate” them in front of potential mates.","Pidove are hardly dangerous, even in their large flocks; they will fly away when they sense danger rather than attacking. Tranqill also dislike conflict and will try to stay away from others in general; they will lash out with their beaks and talons if harassed, however. Unfezant are the most aggressive of the line, especially during mating season. Males may attempt to strut in front of and peck other males, both travelers and Pokémon to “emasculate” them in front of potential mates.","Trainers should not approach these Pokémon in the wild. Blitzle herds are easily spooked, but they usually will run away from danger rather than approach it; they can emit blinding flashes of light to blind attackers, but try to save their electricity for emergencies. Zebstrika will charge at a moment’s notice, triggering their herds to stampede with them; they shoot lightning bolts at random as they charge, further compounding the danger they pose with potential brushfires.","Trainers should not approach these Pokémon in the wild. Blitzle herds are easily spooked, but they usually will run away from danger rather than approach it; they can emit blinding flashes of light to blind attackers, but try to save their electricity for emergencies. Zebstrika will charge at a moment’s notice, triggering their herds to stampede with them; they shoot lightning bolts at random as they charge, further compounding the danger they pose with potential brushfires.","Roggenrola are skittish creatures that will usually hear travelers approaching well before they can be seen, so they will quickly hide away before being spotted. They will get very angry if one sticks objects into or otherwise messes with their ears, which house their energy cores.  Boldore will similarly scuttle away from confrontation, though they may charge at attackers with their bodies if they are cornered. Gigalith are usually peaceful, even when attacked, as their sturdy bodies will protect them from nearly anything. They can fire energy beams from their mouths to defend themselves, however. Both Boldore's and Gigalith's crystals will begin to glow prior to launching energy attacks.","Roggenrola are skittish creatures that will usually hear travelers approaching well before they can be seen, so they will quickly hide away before being spotted. They will get very angry if one sticks objects into or otherwise messes with their ears, which house their energy cores.  Boldore will similarly scuttle away from confrontation, though they may charge at attackers with their bodies if they are cornered. Gigalith are usually peaceful, even when attacked, as their sturdy bodies will protect them from nearly anything. They can fire energy beams from their mouths to defend themselves, however. Both Boldore's and Gigalith's crystals will begin to glow prior to launching energy attacks.","Roggenrola are skittish creatures that will usually hear travelers approaching well before they can be seen, so they will quickly hide away before being spotted. They will get very angry if one sticks objects into or otherwise messes with their ears, which house their energy cores.  Boldore will similarly scuttle away from confrontation, though they may charge at attackers with their bodies if they are cornered. Gigalith are usually peaceful, even when attacked, as their sturdy bodies will protect them from nearly anything. They can fire energy beams from their mouths to defend themselves, however. Both Boldore's and Gigalith's crystals will begin to glow prior to launching energy attacks.","These Pokémon are very friendly, even towards foreign travelers. They rarely pose a significant threat to humans. Woobat may use their noses to mark people, but this action is painless and not a sign of aggression. Swoobat are also cordial to strangers, flitting about human spelunkers they come across. They are more than capable of defending themselves with ultrasonic waves if they feel threatened, however.","These Pokémon are very friendly, even towards foreign travelers. They rarely pose a significant threat to humans. Woobat may use their noses to mark people, but this action is painless and not a sign of aggression. Swoobat are also cordial to strangers, flitting about human spelunkers they come across. They are more than capable of defending themselves with ultrasonic waves if they feel threatened, however.","Drilbur are friendly Pokémon that sometimes help people grow crops, but they can also be a nuisance when the same crops they were tilling the soil for. Territorial Excadrill should not be bothered; they will attack those that enter their labyrinths. Both Drilbur and Excadrill can compromise the structural integrity of buildings when they burrow underneath them, especially when Excadrill dig intersecting tunnels under a foundation.","Drilbur are friendly Pokémon that sometimes help people grow crops, but they can also be a nuisance when the same crops they were tilling the soil for. Territorial Excadrill should not be bothered; they will attack those that enter their labyrinths. Both Drilbur and Excadrill can compromise the structural integrity of buildings when they burrow underneath them, especially when Excadrill dig intersecting tunnels under a foundation.","Audino pose virtually no danger to humans whatsoever. First and foremost, they are rarely even seen in the wild, as they can hear travelers approaching from far away and will hide long before they come near. Secondly, they will run from danger rather than face it, even when they are directly attacked. Finally, in the rare instances where they must defend themselves, they will almost immediately tend to the injuries they dealt to their attackers before fleeing.","Though these Pokémon are incredibly strong, they almost never attack humans. They can sometimes be spotted standing very close to suburban houses, but they usually are only observing the architecture. The materials that they carry around with them are very heavy, however; Gurdurr in particular do not always pay attention to where they swing their metal beams as they walk around, so people should give them a wide berth while they are working.","Though these Pokémon are incredibly strong, they almost never attack humans. They can sometimes be spotted standing very close to suburban houses, but they usually are only observing the architecture. The materials that they carry around with them are very heavy, however; Gurdurr in particular do not always pay attention to where they swing their metal beams as they walk around, so people should give them a wide berth while they are working.","Though these Pokémon are incredibly strong, they almost never attack humans. They can sometimes be spotted standing very close to suburban houses, but they usually are only observing the architecture. The materials that they carry around with them are very heavy, however; Gurdurr in particular do not always pay attention to where they swing their metal beams as they walk around, so people should give them a wide berth while they are working.","Though these Pokémon aren’t actively aggressive, trainers should still stay away from them. Tympole are easily scared and can deafen people when multiple of them vibrate in unison. Palpitoad and Seismitoad, in addition to their sonic capabilities, can also set off tremors through their vibrations. Seismitoad can also shoot a paralyzing toxin from the bumps on their heads to defend themselves; while not deadly, it can leave a person incapacitated for hours.","Though these Pokémon aren’t actively aggressive, trainers should still stay away from them. Tympole are easily scared and can deafen people when multiple of them vibrate in unison. Palpitoad and Seismitoad, in addition to their sonic capabilities, can also set off tremors through their vibrations. Seismitoad can also shoot a paralyzing toxin from the bumps on their heads to defend themselves; while not deadly, it can leave a person incapacitated for hours.","Though these Pokémon aren’t actively aggressive, trainers should still stay away from them. Tympole are easily scared and can deafen people when multiple of them vibrate in unison. Palpitoad and Seismitoad, in addition to their sonic capabilities, can also set off tremors through their vibrations. Seismitoad can also shoot a paralyzing toxin from the bumps on their heads to defend themselves; while not deadly, it can leave a person incapacitated for hours.","Neither of these Pokémon are usually aggressive. Throh are actually more dangerous when they are far away, as they may accidentally hit travelers with the rocks and logs that they throw if they are too distant to see them. Sawk will become very angry at those that interrupt them while they are training, though even when upset they restrain themselves to only dealing blows strong enough to temporarily incapacitate their aggressors.","Neither of these Pokémon are usually aggressive. Throh are actually more dangerous when they are far away, as they may accidentally hit travelers with the rocks and logs that they throw if they are too distant to see them. Sawk will become very angry at those that interrupt them while they are training, though even when upset they restrain themselves to only dealing blows strong enough to temporarily incapacitate their aggressors.","","These Pokémon are not at all hostile towards humans. Sewaddle actually don’t even seem to be able to detect aggression, as they will approach nearly anything with no regard to danger. Leavanny will defend their children with their lives, however, slashing at foes with their sharp cutters. They are usually very friendly, however, fashioning coverings for travelers to protect them from the rain and sun. Swadloon will waddle away from people, grumbling quietly.","These Pokémon are not at all hostile towards humans. Sewaddle actually don’t even seem to be able to detect aggression, as they will approach nearly anything with no regard to danger. Leavanny will defend their children with their lives, however, slashing at foes with their sharp cutters. They are usually very friendly, however, fashioning coverings for travelers to protect them from the rain and sun. Swadloon will waddle away from people, grumbling quietly.","These Pokémon are very aggressive and dangerous. Venipede are one of the most common causes of wild Pokémon-related injuries in the wild; luckily, their venom usually only causes temporary numbness. Whirlipede can charge in from seemingly nowhere and are large enough to leave major bruises; trainers should stay cautious when traveling through their territory. Scolipede are the most fearsome evolution, but they are luckily rare; steer far away from these Pokémon.","These Pokémon are very aggressive and dangerous. Venipede are one of the most common causes of wild Pokémon-related injuries in the wild; luckily, their venom usually only causes temporary numbness. Whirlipede can charge in from seemingly nowhere and are large enough to leave major bruises; trainers should stay cautious when traveling through their territory. Scolipede are the most fearsome evolution, but they are luckily rare; steer far away from these Pokémon.","These Pokémon are very aggressive and dangerous. Venipede are one of the most common causes of wild Pokémon-related injuries in the wild; luckily, their venom usually only causes temporary numbness. Whirlipede can charge in from seemingly nowhere and are large enough to leave major bruises; trainers should stay cautious when traveling through their territory. Scolipede are the most fearsome evolution, but they are luckily rare; steer far away from these Pokémon.","To defend themselves, groups Cottonee will shoot out cotton puffs at attackers. These puffs are irritating to the eyes and noses; since they have a tendency to clump together, they can also quickly make it difficult for enemies to move. Whimsicott are notoriously mischievous, sneaking into homes to cause trouble. Though their pranks can be very annoying, however, they almost never cause any lasting harm. Strong fans help keep these Pokémon away.","To defend themselves, groups Cottonee will shoot out cotton puffs at attackers. These puffs are irritating to the eyes and noses; since they have a tendency to clump together, they can also quickly make it difficult for enemies to move. Whimsicott are notoriously mischievous, sneaking into homes to cause trouble. Though their pranks can be very annoying, however, they almost never cause any lasting harm. Strong fans help keep these Pokémon away.","It can be difficult to properly raise these Pokémon; while they are good-natured and capable of surviving in substandard environments, they require very particular soil and water to properly thrive. Individual Lilligant each have their own specific preferences for things like soil pH and temperature; a trainer can tell when they have perfected these conditions when the flower on their Lilligant’s head blooms.","It can be difficult to properly raise these Pokémon; while they are good-natured and capable of surviving in substandard environments, they require very particular soil and water to properly thrive. Individual Lilligant each have their own specific preferences for things like soil pH and temperature; a trainer can tell when they have perfected these conditions when the flower on their Lilligant’s head blooms.","Though Basculin are aggressive, they will not immediately attack beings larger than themselves. As soon as the sense hostility, however, they will try to bite offenders with their sharp teeth. Swimmers should note that paddling hands can attract these Pokémon when they mistake the movement for food. Schools of Red-Striped Basculin will attack blue objects on sight, as will Blue-Striped Basculin attack red objects; lakes will usually have signs noting which form swims within. ","Sandile are not aggressive Pokémon, but they are curious. They may nip at the bags of travelers to examine their contents. Krokorok are protective of their groups and will all come to the aid of one of their members if it is attacked. Krookodile are aggressive, but usually not towards humans. If one is unfortunate enough to come across and angry Krookodile, one should simply stand still; they are attracted to movement and will eventually leave if they don’t sense anything nearby.","Sandile are not aggressive Pokémon, but they are curious. They may nip at the bags of travelers to examine their contents. Krokorok are protective of their groups and will all come to the aid of one of their members if it is attacked. Krookodile are aggressive, but usually not towards humans. If one is unfortunate enough to come across and angry Krookodile, one should simply stand still; they are attracted to movement and will eventually leave if they don’t sense anything nearby.","Sandile are not aggressive Pokémon, but they are curious. They may nip at the bags of travelers to examine their contents. Krokorok are protective of their groups and will all come to the aid of one of their members if it is attacked. Krookodile are aggressive, but usually not towards humans. If one is unfortunate enough to come across and angry Krookodile, one should simply stand still; they are attracted to movement and will eventually leave if they don’t sense anything nearby.","Darumaka are very friendly towards humans. They are eager to approach desert travelers, tirelessly running circles around people as they wade through the sand. Darmanitan are not hostile, but they are very easily excited. It doesn’t take much to convince them to charge at a supposed threat. One should not touch or disturb a Darmanitan in Zen Mode; doing so could cause it to revert to its Standard Form, ready to attack.","Darumaka are very friendly towards humans. They are eager to approach desert travelers, tirelessly running circles around people as they wade through the sand. Darmanitan are not hostile, but they are very easily excited. It doesn’t take much to convince them to charge at a supposed threat. One should not touch or disturb a Darmanitan in Zen Mode; doing so could cause it to revert to its Standard Form, ready to attack.","Maractus are not an aggressive species; if left alone, they will not bother passerby at all. In fact, they have sometimes been recorded to rhythmically shake their bodies in time with the singing or humming of travelers. These Pokémon will defend themselves with their spikes if threatened, however; they will smack nearby aggressors with Needle Arm or shoot at those farther away with Pin Missile.","Neither of these Pokémon are aggressive towards humans. When endangered, they will tuck themselves into their shells and hide. If their shells are shattered, they will quickly flee to safety. Crustle can sometimes be roadblocks when they try to cross busy streets; the rumbling and sounds of approaching cars will spook a Crustle into hiding, leaving a large, dense block of stone in the middle of the road.","Neither of these Pokémon are aggressive towards humans. When endangered, they will tuck themselves into their shells and hide. If their shells are shattered, they will quickly flee to safety. Crustle can sometimes be roadblocks when they try to cross busy streets; the rumbling and sounds of approaching cars will spook a Crustle into hiding, leaving a large, dense block of stone in the middle of the road.","Scraggy can be a bit aggressive towards strangers; they will charge at those that hold eye contact with them for too long. Simply not staring at these Pokémon is usually enough to keep them from attacking. Scrafty gangs can be confrontational and sometimes try to pick fights with desert travelers. If one ignores them and doesn’t make eye contact, they will eventually give up and wander away.","Scraggy can be a bit aggressive towards strangers; they will charge at those that hold eye contact with them for too long. Simply not staring at these Pokémon is usually enough to keep them from attacking. Scrafty gangs can be confrontational and sometimes try to pick fights with desert travelers. If one ignores them and doesn’t make eye contact, they will eventually give up and wander away.","Sigilyph seem very protective of the ruins that they inhabit. They dutifully patrol areas where walls or entryways may have once stood, attacking those that try to pass by them. They will destroy anything standing in their way as they fly back and forth. Trainers should note that these Pokémon will always fly along the same pathway at a set speed; with careful timing, one can sneak past these Pokémon without drawing their attention.","Yamask are not an aggressive species, but their cries can be vey unsettling because of how much they resemble human voices. It is said that some archaeologists have been driven insane by the sound of many Yamask trying to “converse” with them all at once. Cofagrigus are usually stationary ambush predators; travelers should watch out for suspicious gold coffins. They can crawl surprisingly fast, however, even clinging to walls and ceilings to chase down those that bother them.","Yamask are not an aggressive species, but their cries can be vey unsettling because of how much they resemble human voices. It is said that some archaeologists have been driven insane by the sound of many Yamask trying to “converse” with them all at once. Cofagrigus are usually stationary ambush predators; travelers should watch out for suspicious gold coffins. They can crawl surprisingly fast, however, even clinging to walls and ceilings to chase down those that bother them.","As these Pokémon have gone extinct a hundred thousand years ago, it is very unlikely that trainers will encounter them in the wild. Regardless, research shows that Tirtouga are not initially hostile, but they are very easily provoked; they are surprisingly fast in the water but extremely slow on land. Carracosta are not aggressive, as their shells protect them from most harm. They will use their powerful flippers to smash into foes that continue to pester them, though.","As these Pokémon have gone extinct a hundred thousand years ago, it is very unlikely that trainers will encounter them in the wild. Regardless, research shows that Tirtouga are not initially hostile, but they are very easily provoked; they are surprisingly fast in the water but extremely slow on land. Carracosta are not aggressive, as their shells protect them from most harm. They will use their powerful flippers to smash into foes that continue to pester them, though.","Trainers will likely not encounter these fossil Pokémon in the wild. They should note, however, that these Pokémon are easily discouraged. Though they may be aggressive at first (especially Archen), they will quickly cower and flee if their opponents do not back down. Archeops have great difficulty controlling their flight, so they may accidentally crash into others in the air or as they land. Many people find their squawking to be grating, especially in large numbers.","Trainers will likely not encounter these fossil Pokémon in the wild. They should note, however, that these Pokémon are easily discouraged. Though they may be aggressive at first (especially Archen), they will quickly cower and flee if their opponents do not back down. Archeops have great difficulty controlling their flight, so they may accidentally crash into others in the air or as they land. Many people find their squawking to be grating, especially in large numbers.","Trubbish are friendly and love people (especially litterbugs). They will approach passerby and follow them around in hopes of finding a candy wrapper or bottle. Garbodor are only found in putrid dumps. They are not aggressive, but can attack with poisonous concoctions unique to them; since the composition of such mixtures depends on the exact refuse they had eaten, treating these attacks can be difficult. Their breaths are so rancid that they can knock a person unconscious.","Trubbish are friendly and love people (especially litterbugs). They will approach passerby and follow them around in hopes of finding a candy wrapper or bottle. Garbodor are only found in putrid dumps. They are not aggressive, but can attack with poisonous concoctions unique to them; since the composition of such mixtures depends on the exact refuse they had eaten, treating these attacks can be difficult. Their breaths are so rancid that they can knock a person unconscious.","While these Pokémon can be wily, it is difficult to know when one is nearby. Zorua are michsevious, but they are also easy to spot if one if paying attention; even when disguised, they will always sport a distinctive tail. Zoroark illusions are much harder to recognize, but luckily, these Pokémon rarely bother humans. They will defend their loved ones fiercely, however, so attacking wild Zorua or Zoroark is very ill-advised.","While these Pokémon can be wily, it is difficult to know when one is nearby. Zorua are michsevious, but they are also easy to spot if one if paying attention; even when disguised, they will always sport a distinctive tail. Zoroark illusions are much harder to recognize, but luckily, these Pokémon rarely bother humans. They will defend their loved ones fiercely, however, so attacking wild Zorua or Zoroark is very ill-advised.","Minccino are not a dangerous species of Pokémon. In the wild, they find strength in numbers rather than force. If attacked, herds of them will flee as quickly as possible rather than try and defend themselves. Cinccino are also meek and try to avoid confrontation. They are surprisingly agile and powerful, however; if cornered, these Pokémon can use their tails to slap foes rapidly and in quick succession before scurrying away.","Minccino are not a dangerous species of Pokémon. In the wild, they find strength in numbers rather than force. If attacked, herds of them will flee as quickly as possible rather than try and defend themselves. Cinccino are also meek and try to avoid confrontation. They are surprisingly agile and powerful, however; if cornered, these Pokémon can use their tails to slap foes rapidly and in quick succession before scurrying away.","Gothitelle and their pre-evolutions all dislike fighting. They will try to settle conflicts without resorting to violence. Gothorita will use their manipulative powers to lead threats away from them without causing them harm, while Gothitelle may distort the space around them to distract enemies as they flee. Gothita are more unsettling than dangerous; they will often stare at people unblinkingly for minutes on end.","Gothitelle and their pre-evolutions all dislike fighting. They will try to settle conflicts without resorting to violence. Gothorita will use their manipulative powers to lead threats away from them without causing them harm, while Gothitelle may distort the space around them to distract enemies as they flee. Gothita are more unsettling than dangerous; they will often stare at people unblinkingly for minutes on end.","Gothitelle and their pre-evolutions all dislike fighting. They will try to settle conflicts without resorting to violence. Gothorita will use their manipulative powers to lead threats away from them without causing them harm, while Gothitelle may distort the space around them to distract enemies as they flee. Gothita are more unsettling than dangerous; they will often stare at people unblinkingly for minutes on end.","These Pokémon possess psychokinetic powers that grow stronger as they evolve. They are usually docile; even when directly attacked, they sometimes will not bother retaliating if the blow bounced off of their cell membranes. Duosion can be a bit unpredictable, however, because their two brains often disagree. Reuniclus can grasp objects with enormous force with the help of their psychic abilities.","These Pokémon possess psychokinetic powers that grow stronger as they evolve. They are usually docile; even when directly attacked, they sometimes will not bother retaliating if the blow bounced off of their cell membranes. Duosion can be a bit unpredictable, however, because their two brains often disagree. Reuniclus can grasp objects with enormous force with the help of their psychic abilities.","These Pokémon possess psychokinetic powers that grow stronger as they evolve. They are usually docile; even when directly attacked, they sometimes will not bother retaliating if the blow bounced off of their cell membranes. Duosion can be a bit unpredictable, however, because their two brains often disagree. Reuniclus can grasp objects with enormous force with the help of their psychic abilities.","Ducklett are rather weak and helpless on their own; the most they can do is splash or spray water at attackers. They are almost never alone, however, as they are usually accompanied by their siblings and mother. Mother Swanna are very protective of their offspring and possess sharp beaks and strong wings. Even childless Swanna are very aggressive; they will angrily chase down and peck those that come too close to them.","Ducklett are rather weak and helpless on their own; the most they can do is splash or spray water at attackers. They are almost never alone, however, as they are usually accompanied by their siblings and mother. Mother Swanna are very protective of their offspring and possess sharp beaks and strong wings. Even childless Swanna are very aggressive; they will angrily chase down and peck those that come too close to them.","Travelers will rarely come across these Pokémon in the wild, as they dwell in bitterly cold areas that seldom are visited by people. Their primary method of defense at all stages of evolution is the emission of icy mist. This mist cloaks them and allows them to flee; additionally, it is so cold that it can encase attackers in ice if they spend too much time engulfed in it. Touching the cores of these Pokémon can lead to frostbite because of how icy they are.","Travelers will rarely come across these Pokémon in the wild, as they dwell in bitterly cold areas that seldom are visited by people. Their primary method of defense at all stages of evolution is the emission of icy mist. This mist cloaks them and allows them to flee; additionally, it is so cold that it can encase attackers in ice if they spend too much time engulfed in it. Touching the cores of these Pokémon can lead to frostbite because of how icy they are.","Travelers will rarely come across these Pokémon in the wild, as they dwell in bitterly cold areas that seldom are visited by people. Their primary method of defense at all stages of evolution is the emission of icy mist. This mist cloaks them and allows them to flee; additionally, it is so cold that it can encase attackers in ice if they spend too much time engulfed in it. Touching the cores of these Pokémon can lead to frostbite because of how icy they are.","Deerling are meek creatures that will flee if approached. They find safety in their herds; lone Deerling will freeze up if approached, so people and Pokémon traveling at high speeds sometimes collide with them unexpectedly. Sawsbuck are much less timid. They will charge at attackers and headbutt them with their horns; these Pokémon are especially aggressive during their mating season.","Deerling are meek creatures that will flee if approached. They find safety in their herds; lone Deerling will freeze up if approached, so people and Pokémon traveling at high speeds sometimes collide with them unexpectedly. Sawsbuck are much less timid. They will charge at attackers and headbutt them with their horns; these Pokémon are especially aggressive during their mating season.","Emolga are very agile in the air. They will flee if they sense danger, leaping and gliding between the branches of trees. If they feel threatened, they will try to maneuver themselves so they are above their attackers and then try to shock them from the air. They will defend their nests and the stored food within them, shocking those that get too close. Strong winds such as those created by the attacks of some Flying-types will prevent these creatures from taking flight.","Karrablast prefer to hide from danger. Because they often seek shelter in the tall grass, however, trainers may accidentally encounter them while traveling. When startled, they will spit a mildly-corrosive acid that can cause mild irritation on the skin; one should seek medical attention if it reaches the eyes, however. Escavalier should not be bothered; though not initially aggressive, they see approaching people as challengers and will charge at them with little hesitation.","Karrablast prefer to hide from danger. Because they often seek shelter in the tall grass, however, trainers may accidentally encounter them while traveling. When startled, they will spit a mildly-corrosive acid that can cause mild irritation on the skin; one should seek medical attention if it reaches the eyes, however. Escavalier should not be bothered; though not initially aggressive, they see approaching people as challengers and will charge at them with little hesitation.","Trainers should be wary of odd-looking Poké Balls hidden in the grass; chances are that they may in fact be Foongus. These Pokémon will scatter poisonous spores if approached. Though the spores are not significantly harmful, they can require a trip to the Pokémon Center depending on how many are inhaled. Amoonguss also can spray spores, but few trainers are fooled by their huge caps; they will not attack if travelers stay sufficiently far away.","Trainers should be wary of odd-looking Poké Balls hidden in the grass; chances are that they may in fact be Foongus. These Pokémon will scatter poisonous spores if approached. Though the spores are not significantly harmful, they can require a trip to the Pokémon Center depending on how many are inhaled. Amoonguss also can spray spores, but few trainers are fooled by their huge caps; they will not attack if travelers stay sufficiently far away.","Sailors embarking on long voyages fear these ghostly creatures. Jellicent are one of the biggest culprits behind Pokémon-related ship disasters. Frillish may not attack marine vessels, but their poisonous tentacles can paralyze swimmers and potentially drown them if they are unable to keep themselves afloat. These Pokémon only rise to the surface at night; it is best to simply not enter the water once the sun sets in areas that Frillish and Jellicent dwell.","Sailors embarking on long voyages fear these ghostly creatures. Jellicent are one of the biggest culprits behind Pokémon-related ship disasters. Frillish may not attack marine vessels, but their poisonous tentacles can paralyze swimmers and potentially drown them if they are unable to keep themselves afloat. These Pokémon only rise to the surface at night; it is best to simply not enter the water once the sun sets in areas that Frillish and Jellicent dwell.","Alomomola are not at all a dangerous species of Pokémon. In fact, they will swim up to injured people and Pokémon to help heal their wounds with their mucoid membranes. These creatures are very slow-moving in the wild, however; they can impede the travel of ocean vessels as they meander about. This is especially true when they are sunbathing, as they are unable to see where they are floating while in this position.","Joltik can be a nuisance in cities where they can cause small blackouts as they feed. They can also be a bother to trainers with Electric-type Pokémon, as they can attach unnoticed before they begin draining their hosts of electricity; they will also shock those that try to remove them. Galvantula are not aggressive, but their sticky webs can be dangerous as they adhere to skin and deliver stunning electric shocks. Angering a single Galvantula will spur its entire cluster to attack.","Joltik can be a nuisance in cities where they can cause small blackouts as they feed. They can also be a bother to trainers with Electric-type Pokémon, as they can attach unnoticed before they begin draining their hosts of electricity; they will also shock those that try to remove them. Galvantula are not aggressive, but their sticky webs can be dangerous as they adhere to skin and deliver stunning electric shocks. Angering a single Galvantula will spur its entire cluster to attack.","Ferroseed commonly injure spelunkers as they explore caverns. They can unexpectedly drop from above when they finish feeding, and their spikes and weight allow them to cause serious injury if they land on someone. Travelers should wear helmets and pay attention to what is above them in caves. Ferrothorn are not aggressive, but they are wary of strangers and may swing their feelers at those who approach. They hate fire, so spelunkers can wield torches to keep them away.","Ferroseed commonly injure spelunkers as they explore caverns. They can unexpectedly drop from above when they finish feeding, and their spikes and weight allow them to cause serious injury if they land on someone. Travelers should wear helmets and pay attention to what is above them in caves. Ferrothorn are not aggressive, but they are wary of strangers and may swing their feelers at those who approach. They hate fire, so spelunkers can wield torches to keep them away.","These Pokémon are not aggressive; in the wild, they seem to ignore humans and other Pokémon entirely. They will defend themselves with their spinning gears if attacked, however. Klang will launch one of their units so that it ricochets back to them, while Klinklang can fire beams of energy from the spikes on their lower gears. It is illegal for a trainer to not reassemble a separated, inert Klink or Klang if he or she was the one that separated them in the first place.","These Pokémon are not aggressive; in the wild, they seem to ignore humans and other Pokémon entirely. They will defend themselves with their spinning gears if attacked, however. Klang will launch one of their units so that it ricochets back to them, while Klinklang can fire beams of energy from the spikes on their lower gears. It is illegal for a trainer to not reassemble a separated, inert Klink or Klang if he or she was the one that separated them in the first place.","These Pokémon are not aggressive; in the wild, they seem to ignore humans and other Pokémon entirely. They will defend themselves with their spinning gears if attacked, however. Klang will launch one of their units so that it ricochets back to them, while Klinklang can fire beams of energy from the spikes on their lower gears. It is illegal for a trainer to not reassemble a separated, inert Klink or Klang if he or she was the one that separated them in the first place.","Tynamo may be weak when alone, but trainers shouldn’t be fooled; they can incapacitate foes with powerful shocks in large schools. Eelektrik are aggressive species that will try to attack those that come too close with their electricity and jaws. They will immediately cease giving chase, however, if they are offered food. Eelektross are rare in the wild, but they are territorial creatures that do not take kindly to visitors. Trainers should stay away from these Pokémon.","Tynamo may be weak when alone, but trainers shouldn’t be fooled; they can incapacitate foes with powerful shocks in large schools. Eelektrik are aggressive species that will try to attack those that come too close with their electricity and jaws. They will immediately cease giving chase, however, if they are offered food. Eelektross are rare in the wild, but they are territorial creatures that do not take kindly to visitors. Trainers should stay away from these Pokémon.","Tynamo may be weak when alone, but trainers shouldn’t be fooled; they can incapacitate foes with powerful shocks in large schools. Eelektrik are aggressive species that will try to attack those that come too close with their electricity and jaws. They will immediately cease giving chase, however, if they are offered food. Eelektross are rare in the wild, but they are territorial creatures that do not take kindly to visitors. Trainers should stay away from these Pokémon.","Neither of these Pokémon should be approached in the wild. Elgyem are not aggressive; in fact, they may approach travelers that come across them out of curiosity. However, the can inflict crippling headaches strong enough to cause blackouts on those that threaten them. Beheyeem are rarely sighted, but they are rumored to be capable of altering and wiping the memories of others. They dislike being approached, especially by humans.","Neither of these Pokémon should be approached in the wild. Elgyem are not aggressive; in fact, they may approach travelers that come across them out of curiosity. However, the can inflict crippling headaches strong enough to cause blackouts on those that threaten them. Beheyeem are rarely sighted, but they are rumored to be capable of altering and wiping the memories of others. They dislike being approached, especially by humans.","Under no circumstances should trainers approach any of these Pokémon. Litwick will try to fool travelers by pretending to guide them through woods while actually burning through their life force. Lampent are more passive, as they wait for those that are approaching death. Chandelure are the most dangerous of the line, though they are also luckily the most rare. One should avoid watching these Pokémon as they dance, as they can mesmerize victims before striking.","Under no circumstances should trainers approach any of these Pokémon. Litwick will try to fool travelers by pretending to guide them through woods while actually burning through their life force. Lampent are more passive, as they wait for those that are approaching death. Chandelure are the most dangerous of the line, though they are also luckily the most rare. One should avoid watching these Pokémon as they dance, as they can mesmerize victims before striking.","Under no circumstances should trainers approach any of these Pokémon. Litwick will try to fool travelers by pretending to guide them through woods while actually burning through their life force. Lampent are more passive, as they wait for those that are approaching death. Chandelure are the most dangerous of the line, though they are also luckily the most rare. One should avoid watching these Pokémon as they dance, as they can mesmerize victims before striking.","All members of this family are territorial, but only Fraxure will attack intruders of other species; both Axew and Haxorus will let humans pass through without incident as long as they don’t cause trouble. These Pokémon clearly mark the boundaries of their land with slashes on tree trunks, making it easy for trainers to avoid such areas. Though not aggressive, Haxorus can go on decimating rampages when they are angered; travelers should treat them with caution and respect.","All members of this family are territorial, but only Fraxure will attack intruders of other species; both Axew and Haxorus will let humans pass through without incident as long as they don’t cause trouble. These Pokémon clearly mark the boundaries of their land with slashes on tree trunks, making it easy for trainers to avoid such areas. Though not aggressive, Haxorus can go on decimating rampages when they are angered; travelers should treat them with caution and respect.","All members of this family are territorial, but only Fraxure will attack intruders of other species; both Axew and Haxorus will let humans pass through without incident as long as they don’t cause trouble. These Pokémon clearly mark the boundaries of their land with slashes on tree trunks, making it easy for trainers to avoid such areas. Though not aggressive, Haxorus can go on decimating rampages when they are angered; travelers should treat them with caution and respect.","Trainers should never approach either of these Pokémon in the wild. Cubchoo are rather defenseless on their own, but they can still wield some Ice-type attacks to defend themselves if threatened. Trainers should primairly never disturb Cubchoo, however, because they are almost always near their parents. Beartic are extremely protective of their cubs; they will not hesitate to freeze and maul potential threats before they can harm their children.","Trainers should never approach either of these Pokémon in the wild. Cubchoo are rather defenseless on their own, but they can still wield some Ice-type attacks to defend themselves if threatened. Trainers should primairly never disturb Cubchoo, however, because they are almost always near their parents. Beartic are extremely protective of their cubs; they will not hesitate to freeze and maul potential threats before they can harm their children.","Most trainers will not encounter Cryogonal in the wild, as they only dwell permanently in bitterly cold areas; they often will ephemerally appear when snow or hail temporarily drops the air temperature of a region and then disappear once it ends. Still, trainers should avoid these Pokémon if spotted, as they can be aggressive and will use their icy chains to bind potential prey or threats. A heat source, such as a flame or hand warmer, will keep wild Cryogonal far away.","Shelmet dislike being bothered; if threatened, they will spit a sticky poison, clamp shut, and then burrow deeper into the mud. This poison is difficult to wash off and can cause mild to moderate irritation if left on the skin. Accelgor are blindingly fast and thus rarely have to come into conflict with others. They are more than capable of defending themselves with their ninja-like attacks and poison, however.","Shelmet dislike being bothered; if threatened, they will spit a sticky poison, clamp shut, and then burrow deeper into the mud. This poison is difficult to wash off and can cause mild to moderate irritation if left on the skin. Accelgor are blindingly fast and thus rarely have to come into conflict with others. They are more than capable of defending themselves with their ninja-like attacks and poison, however.","Travelers should never wade into muddy marshes or estuaries without wearing rubber boots. These Pokémon will instinctively electrocute anything that steps on top of them. Additionally, since they mostly hide beneath a thin layer of mud, they can be difficult to spot even if trainers are alert. Though Stunfisk may not be able to knock out adult humans, their shocks are strong enough to incapacitate smaller Pokémon and young children.","These Pokémon are not aggressive creatures. Mienfoo will try to ignore travelers entirely while they are training; however, they may angrily lash out at those who disturb them before returning to their practice. Mienshao are peaceful fighters that will try their best to avoid conflict even when they are directly attacked. If they must fight, they will do so honorably and only do as much as is necessary to end the fight; they will let out a distinctive, bizarre wailing sound before attacking.","These Pokémon are not aggressive creatures. Mienfoo will try to ignore travelers entirely while they are training; however, they may angrily lash out at those who disturb them before returning to their practice. Mienshao are peaceful fighters that will try their best to avoid conflict even when they are directly attacked. If they must fight, they will do so honorably and only do as much as is necessary to end the fight; they will let out a distinctive, bizarre wailing sound before attacking.","Druddigon are an aggressive species that will chase down unfortunate travelers that stumble into their tunnels. They are also surprisingly fast, especially when navigating cramped labyrinths. Their rough, rocky skin can injure those that attempt to attack them directly. These Pokémon are especially weak to the cold, as they will freeze up and become unable to move if their body temperatures drop too low. Thus, Ice-type attacks are especially effective against these creatures.","Though they are not not aggressive, trainers should avoid approaching these Pokémon in the wild. They seem to stand guard over the ruins that they dwell in, attacking intruders that try to explore them. Golurk are especially formidable foes, as they can fly at Mach speeds to catch up to and dispatch fleeing invaders. Under no circumstances should a trainer try to destroy or remove a Golurk’s seal; doing so could result in disastrous consequences for both the trainer and his or her surroundings.","Though they are not not aggressive, trainers should avoid approaching these Pokémon in the wild. They seem to stand guard over the ruins that they dwell in, attacking intruders that try to explore them. Golurk are especially formidable foes, as they can fly at Mach speeds to catch up to and dispatch fleeing invaders. Under no circumstances should a trainer try to destroy or remove a Golurk’s seal; doing so could result in disastrous consequences for both the trainer and his or her surroundings.","Though urban legends regarding intentional “practice” attacks on humans may have been fabricated, these Pokémon are nevertheless very dangerous in the wild. Though they do not prey on humans, Bisharp and their Pawniard packs are are very aggressive and will attack with little provocation. One should slowly back away from a pack with one’s hands in the air; if confrontation is inevitable, one should know that defeating the leader Bisharp will cause the pack to disperse.","Though urban legends regarding intentional “practice” attacks on humans may have been fabricated, these Pokémon are nevertheless very dangerous in the wild. Though they do not prey on humans, Bisharp and their Pawniard packs are are very aggressive and will attack with little provocation. One should slowly back away from a pack with one’s hands in the air; if confrontation is inevitable, one should know that defeating the leader Bisharp will cause the pack to disperse.","Bouffalant herds are quick to stampede; however, this appears to be an individual reaction rather than a group one. To clarify, this means that Bouffalant will each decide to charge at a foe if they see one rather than members of a herd charging when they see others doing so. Trainers can use this to their advantage by quickly hiding if they are spotted; only a few Bouffalant will charge as their herds continue traveling. They will then quickly give up chase so they aren’t left behind.","Although these Pokémon are not aggressive towards humans, they are valiant fighters that will quickly retaliate if threatened. One should not let the small size of Rufflet fool them; these creatures have strong talons and beaks that they will use viciously to defend themselves. Braviary are courageous Pokémon that will not back down from a fight. They will defend their loved ones with their lives and will not hold back against those that threaten their friends and family.","Although these Pokémon are not aggressive towards humans, they are valiant fighters that will quickly retaliate if threatened. One should not let the small size of Rufflet fool them; these creatures have strong talons and beaks that they will use viciously to defend themselves. Braviary are courageous Pokémon that will not back down from a fight. They will defend their loved ones with their lives and will not hold back against those that threaten their friends and family.","Neither of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to humans. Vullaby are weak Pokémon that rely heavily on their mothers for survival. Mandibuzz are opportunistic scavengers that will never try to start conflict with healthy foes. Though these Pokémon are attracted to the sick and dying, those that spot Mandibuzz circling above their heads generally will have far more immediate problems to worry about.","Neither of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to humans. Vullaby are weak Pokémon that rely heavily on their mothers for survival. Mandibuzz are opportunistic scavengers that will never try to start conflict with healthy foes. Though these Pokémon are attracted to the sick and dying, those that spot Mandibuzz circling above their heads generally will have far more immediate problems to worry about.","Heatmor are not a hostile species of Pokémon. If not bothered, they will prefer to forage for Durant and ignore travelers entirely. They will use their flames to burn those that disturb them while they are trying to feed, however. Before a Heatmor attacks, it will begin to spew sooty smoke from its tail. They will not chase down foes that back away from this warning sign, as they would much prefer to continue eating.","Durant are a very aggressive species. Colonies will work together to defend their queens, attacking any other species (and even Durant of other colonies) that encroach on their territories. Their strong jaws can leave very nasty wounds, especially since they aim for vulnerable areas and team up to bite the same victim. Although flames scare these Pokémon, travelers should note that they also trigger their defense response; Durant will immediately prepare for attack if they see fire.","All stages of the Deino line are extremely aggressive in the wild. However, Deino and Zweilous are functionally blind and thus only pose a danger to trainers that are unaware of their surroundings. If approached by these Pokémon, one should simply stand still, as they ignore things that are not moving. Hydreigon are one of the most savage species known to man; steer clear of any habitats where these creatures are known to dwell.","All stages of the Deino line are extremely aggressive in the wild. However, Deino and Zweilous are functionally blind and thus only pose a danger to trainers that are unaware of their surroundings. If approached by these Pokémon, one should simply stand still, as they ignore things that are not moving. Hydreigon are one of the most savage species known to man; steer clear of any habitats where these creatures are known to dwell.","All stages of the Deino line are extremely aggressive in the wild. However, Deino and Zweilous are functionally blind and thus only pose a danger to trainers that are unaware of their surroundings. If approached by these Pokémon, one should simply stand still, as they ignore things that are not moving. Hydreigon are one of the most savage species known to man; steer clear of any habitats where these creatures are known to dwell.","Although neither Larvesta nor Volcarona are aggressive, both stages are more than capable of defending themselves if threatened. The horns on a Larvesta’s head are hot to the touch. they can also spew flames to cloak the Pokémon in a fiery cocoon. Volcarona are powerful Pokémon that should not be disturbed. In addition to wielding formidable Fire-type attacks, they are also protected by law in many regions.","Although neither Larvesta nor Volcarona are aggressive, both stages are more than capable of defending themselves if threatened. The horns on a Larvesta’s head are hot to the touch. they can also spew flames to cloak the Pokémon in a fiery cocoon. Volcarona are powerful Pokémon that should not be disturbed. In addition to wielding formidable Fire-type attacks, they are also protected by law in many regions.","","","","","","","","","","","","","Chespin and their evolutions are very docile creatures that virtually never try to harm others. They may not even retaliate at enemies with their own attacks. However, their hard, spiky carapaces make striking these Pokémon a very poor idea. Chesnaught are very protective of their friends and family; though they may not attack opponents outright, they will use Spiky Shield to injure those that try to harm their loved ones.","Chespin and their evolutions are very docile creatures that virtually never try to harm others. They may not even retaliate at enemies with their own attacks. However, their hard, spiky carapaces make striking these Pokémon a very poor idea. Chesnaught are very protective of their friends and family; though they may not attack opponents outright, they will use Spiky Shield to injure those that try to harm their loved ones.","Chespin and their evolutions are very docile creatures that virtually never try to harm others. They may not even retaliate at enemies with their own attacks. However, their hard, spiky carapaces make striking these Pokémon a very poor idea. Chesnaught are very protective of their friends and family; though they may not attack opponents outright, they will use Spiky Shield to injure those that try to harm their loved ones.","Although not usually aggressive, these Pokémon should not be approached in the wild. Fennekin will defend themselves by intentionally starting brushfires, igniting the dry grass around them. They are easily spooked and will quickly attack if scared. Braixen and Delphox are more refined in their defensive techniques, instead wielding their burning sticks as torches to keep foes at bay. Delphox will also use their psychic abilities to deter attackers.","Although not usually aggressive, these Pokémon should not be approached in the wild. Fennekin will defend themselves by intentionally starting brushfires, igniting the dry grass around them. They are easily spooked and will quickly attack if scared. Braixen and Delphox are more refined in their defensive techniques, instead wielding their burning sticks as torches to keep foes at bay. Delphox will also use their psychic abilities to deter attackers.","Although not usually aggressive, these Pokémon should not be approached in the wild. Fennekin will defend themselves by intentionally starting brushfires, igniting the dry grass around them. They are easily spooked and will quickly attack if scared. Braixen and Delphox are more refined in their defensive techniques, instead wielding their burning sticks as torches to keep foes at bay. Delphox will also use their psychic abilities to deter attackers.","These Pokémon usually prefer to leave humans alone. Most trainers will fail to even notice Frogadier and Greninja when they are in hiding. If provoked, however, these Pokémon will leap into action. They never stay long enough for a true fight, instead using their blinding speed to land enough blows to slow their attackers before cloaking themselves in foam and fleeing. Greninja may also use their tongues to whip foes or use Water Shuriken to attack from a distance.","These Pokémon usually prefer to leave humans alone. Most trainers will fail to even notice Frogadier and Greninja when they are in hiding. If provoked, however, these Pokémon will leap into action. They never stay long enough for a true fight, instead using their blinding speed to land enough blows to slow their attackers before cloaking themselves in foam and fleeing. Greninja may also use their tongues to whip foes or use Water Shuriken to attack from a distance.","These Pokémon usually prefer to leave humans alone. Most trainers will fail to even notice Frogadier and Greninja when they are in hiding. If provoked, however, these Pokémon will leap into action. They never stay long enough for a true fight, instead using their blinding speed to land enough blows to slow their attackers before cloaking themselves in foam and fleeing. Greninja may also use their tongues to whip foes or use Water Shuriken to attack from a distance.","Although Bunnelby may seem weak and unassuming, they can use their powerful ears to strike threats with hard blows before digging beneath the soil. They are quick to flee, but luckily will only attack if they feel they cannot burrow away before the danger comes too near. Diggersby are less skittish than their pre-evolutions, but can similarly use their powerful ears to attack those that anger them.","Although Bunnelby may seem weak and unassuming, they can use their powerful ears to strike threats with hard blows before digging beneath the soil. They are quick to flee, but luckily will only attack if they feel they cannot burrow away before the danger comes too near. Diggersby are less skittish than their pre-evolutions, but can similarly use their powerful ears to attack those that anger them.","Kalos trainers know that these Pokémon should not be provoked. Despite their beautiful singing, Fletchling are very aggressive if angered and tend to seek out vulnerable areas in their opponents. Fletchinder and Talonflame can both wield flames to defend themselves. Fletchinder may set the grass below them ablaze to keep foes away, while Talonflame will dive-bomb attackers to strike them with their powerful talons.","Kalos trainers know that these Pokémon should not be provoked. Despite their beautiful singing, Fletchling are very aggressive if angered and tend to seek out vulnerable areas in their opponents. Fletchinder and Talonflame can both wield flames to defend themselves. Fletchinder may set the grass below them ablaze to keep foes away, while Talonflame will dive-bomb attackers to strike them with their powerful talons.","Kalos trainers know that these Pokémon should not be provoked. Despite their beautiful singing, Fletchling are very aggressive if angered and tend to seek out vulnerable areas in their opponents. Fletchinder and Talonflame can both wield flames to defend themselves. Fletchinder may set the grass below them ablaze to keep foes away, while Talonflame will dive-bomb attackers to strike them with their powerful talons.","Scatterbug and Spewpa will spray a fine black powder when threatened. This powder can cause numbness and eventually paralysis in affected areas if left untreated, but this effect luckily wears off in a few hours. Spewpa can also bristle their fur to deter attackers, as their hairs become sharp and unpleasant to the touch. Vivillon prefer to fly away from conflict, shedding scales of unknown purpose behind them as they flee (popular folklore states that these scales calm angry spirits).","Scatterbug and Spewpa will spray a fine black powder when threatened. This powder can cause numbness and eventually paralysis in affected areas if left untreated, but this effect luckily wears off in a few hours. Spewpa can also bristle their fur to deter attackers, as their hairs become sharp and unpleasant to the touch. Vivillon prefer to fly away from conflict, shedding scales of unknown purpose behind them as they flee (popular folklore states that these scales calm angry spirits).","Scatterbug and Spewpa will spray a fine black powder when threatened. This powder can cause numbness and eventually paralysis in affected areas if left untreated, but this effect luckily wears off in a few hours. Spewpa can also bristle their fur to deter attackers, as their hairs become sharp and unpleasant to the touch. Vivillon prefer to fly away from conflict, shedding scales of unknown purpose behind them as they flee (popular folklore states that these scales calm angry spirits).","Trainers should not touch the manes of either Litleo or Pyroar, as they are very hot, especially when glowing. Although Litleo can be inquisitive and may approach travelers in the wild, trainers should not venture too close to them. Young Litleo are rarely ever far from their prides, and female Pyroar are very protective of their young. Adult Pyroar are formidable threats, wielding both sharp claws and searing flames; they should not be provoked under any circumstances.","Trainers should not touch the manes of either Litleo or Pyroar, as they are very hot, especially when glowing. Although Litleo can be inquisitive and may approach travelers in the wild, trainers should not venture too close to them. Young Litleo are rarely ever far from their prides, and female Pyroar are very protective of their young. Adult Pyroar are formidable threats, wielding both sharp claws and searing flames; they should not be provoked under any circumstances.","Though small, these Pokémon should not be underestimated. Flabébé and Floette are timid creatures that dislike conflict. They will defend their blooms with their lives, however. In large flowerbeds, Floette can harness energy from all of the blooms around them to unleash powerful attacks. Florges are more proactive in defending their gardens; they will attack those that carelessly step on their blooms to prevent them from causing further harm.","Though small, these Pokémon should not be underestimated. Flabébé and Floette are timid creatures that dislike conflict. They will defend their blooms with their lives, however. In large flowerbeds, Floette can harness energy from all of the blooms around them to unleash powerful attacks. Florges are more proactive in defending their gardens; they will attack those that carelessly step on their blooms to prevent them from causing further harm.","Though small, these Pokémon should not be underestimated. Flabébé and Floette are timid creatures that dislike conflict. They will defend their blooms with their lives, however. In large flowerbeds, Floette can harness energy from all of the blooms around them to unleash powerful attacks. Florges are more proactive in defending their gardens; they will attack those that carelessly step on their blooms to prevent them from causing further harm.","These Pokémon, even wild individuals, are very comfortable around humans. Because of this, they pose little danger to travelers. If attacked, however, these Pokémon will charge headfirst at their foes to knock them away. In the steep mountainous regions that they sometimes dwell, this can be especially dangerous. Skiddo and Gogoat can sense the intentions of their riders through their horns; they may try to throw off those that are trying to harm them or their loved ones.","These Pokémon, even wild individuals, are very comfortable around humans. Because of this, they pose little danger to travelers. If attacked, however, these Pokémon will charge headfirst at their foes to knock them away. In the steep mountainous regions that they sometimes dwell, this can be especially dangerous. Skiddo and Gogoat can sense the intentions of their riders through their horns; they may try to throw off those that are trying to harm them or their loved ones.","Wild Pancham may try to appear menacing, but cannot do much to defend themselves. They are rarely ever alone, however, as their parents are usually nearby. Pangoro are not usually aggressive, but they will enter berserk states if they see weaker Pokémon being threatened. They will not listen to reason when in such states, making them very dangerous opponents. Trainers should tread carefully around these Pokémon so they don’t accidentally anger them. ","Wild Pancham may try to appear menacing, but cannot do much to defend themselves. They are rarely ever alone, however, as their parents are usually nearby. Pangoro are not usually aggressive, but they will enter berserk states if they see weaker Pokémon being threatened. They will not listen to reason when in such states, making them very dangerous opponents. Trainers should tread carefully around these Pokémon so they don’t accidentally anger them. ","Although some styles may make these Pokémon look a bit ridiculous, trainers should not be fooled; these Pokémon were bred to protect and defend royalty. They are very protective of their trainers. When they sense danger, they will bare their fangs and growl menacingly. If their foes do not back down, they will attack viciously with their sharp teeth. Groomed Furfrou also may bite those that try to touch their carefully-styled fur.","Trainers should not approach these Pokémon in the wild. Espurr dislike being around people in fear of letting loose their power, and getting close to them ironically can frighten them so much that they accidentally do just that. Meowstic are more in control of their abilities, but are still very wary of strangers. Both of these Pokémon can easily cause fatal injuries if threatened, so they should be left alone at all costs. ","Trainers should not approach these Pokémon in the wild. Espurr dislike being around people in fear of letting loose their power, and getting close to them ironically can frighten them so much that they accidentally do just that. Meowstic are more in control of their abilities, but are still very wary of strangers. Both of these Pokémon can easily cause fatal injuries if threatened, so they should be left alone at all costs. ","Trainers should avoid these Pokémon in the wild. They will wrap their tassels around the arms of travelers that try to hold them to drain their life energy. Honedge will only attack those that come too close, while Doublade will let go if their victims run too far away from their plaques; their cuts are said to damage one’s soul in addition to their bodies. Aegislash are rare in the wild and almost never attack humans. It is thought that they do most of their work through their “masters.”","Trainers should avoid these Pokémon in the wild. They will wrap their tassels around the arms of travelers that try to hold them to drain their life energy. Honedge will only attack those that come too close, while Doublade will let go if their victims run too far away from their plaques; their cuts are said to damage one’s soul in addition to their bodies. Aegislash are rare in the wild and almost never attack humans. It is thought that they do most of their work through their “masters.”","Trainers should avoid these Pokémon in the wild. They will wrap their tassels around the arms of travelers that try to hold them to drain their life energy. Honedge will only attack those that come too close, while Doublade will let go if their victims run too far away from their plaques; their cuts are said to damage one’s soul in addition to their bodies. Aegislash are rare in the wild and almost never attack humans. It is thought that they do most of their work through their “masters.”","These Pokémon defend themselves by overwhelming their foes’ senses of smell. They will try to create the most offensive odors they can and then release clouds of it to daze or even knock out their enemies. While this works very well against many of their natural predators, who depend on their olfactory senses, this also does mean that they can be rather easily approached in one holds his or her breath. Thick clouds of their scents can cause the eyes to water and burn, however.","These Pokémon defend themselves by overwhelming their foes’ senses of smell. They will try to create the most offensive odors they can and then release clouds of it to daze or even knock out their enemies. While this works very well against many of their natural predators, who depend on their olfactory senses, this also does mean that they can be rather easily approached in one holds his or her breath. Thick clouds of their scents can cause the eyes to water and burn, however.","These Pokémon are hardly a danger to other people or Pokémon. Playful Swirlix may leave people covered in sticky syrup as they hop around in search of candy, but they mean no harm. Slurpuff are just as well-meaning as their pre-evolutions and almost never hurt people. Young children may fear these Pokémon because they try to eat their candy; the Swirly Floss they leave behind is often enough to make amends, however.","These Pokémon are hardly a danger to other people or Pokémon. Playful Swirlix may leave people covered in sticky syrup as they hop around in search of candy, but they mean no harm. Slurpuff are just as well-meaning as their pre-evolutions and almost never hurt people. Young children may fear these Pokémon because they try to eat their candy; the Swirly Floss they leave behind is often enough to make amends, however.","Inkay and Malamar usually do not pose a direct threat to humans; Inkay will use their psychic powers to deter travelers from approaching, but rarely do anything beyond that. Malamar pose a far larger danger through the humans that they control; if an acquaintance begins to act peculiarly and is spotted alongside a Malamar, there is a good chance that the Pokémon is manipulating his or her actions. Knocking out the Malamar or moving it far away will break its control.","Inkay and Malamar usually do not pose a direct threat to humans; Inkay will use their psychic powers to deter travelers from approaching, but rarely do anything beyond that. Malamar pose a far larger danger through the humans that they control; if an acquaintance begins to act peculiarly and is spotted alongside a Malamar, there is a good chance that the Pokémon is manipulating his or her actions. Knocking out the Malamar or moving it far away will break its control.","Binacle are very slow and dislike being bothered. They will use their sharp claws to slash at those that provoke them; travelers should note that they can contract and expand their bodies to hop around, landing surprise attacks on those that think they are far enough away. Barbaracle are wary of those that enter their territories, but they will not attack unless they feel threatened. All units of a Barbaracle, including its head, can deliver sharp slashes.","Binacle are very slow and dislike being bothered. They will use their sharp claws to slash at those that provoke them; travelers should note that they can contract and expand their bodies to hop around, landing surprise attacks on those that think they are far enough away. Barbaracle are wary of those that enter their territories, but they will not attack unless they feel threatened. All units of a Barbaracle, including its head, can deliver sharp slashes.","Poisonous Skrelp can be a danger to unwary divers in kelp forests. They will not attack unless they are directly disturbed, however, as they want to conserve as much energy as possible for evolution. Dragalge are feared for their shipwrecking capabilities. Sailors simply try to avoid the waters where they dwell rather than try to combat them; the best way to escape a chasing Dragalge is to flee to open waters; they are slow swimmers that stay within their territorial boundaries.","Poisonous Skrelp can be a danger to unwary divers in kelp forests. They will not attack unless they are directly disturbed, however, as they want to conserve as much energy as possible for evolution. Dragalge are feared for their shipwrecking capabilities. Sailors simply try to avoid the waters where they dwell rather than try to combat them; the best way to escape a chasing Dragalge is to flee to open waters; they are slow swimmers that stay within their territorial boundaries.","Clauncher and Clawitzer rarely attack humans in the wild. They should not be trifled with, however, as their shots can easily shatter bones if they make direct impact. Swimmers should not draw too close to these creatures, as the cavitation bubbles they produce can temporarily blind and deafen those around them. Clawitzer have very poor aim, so their shots are easily dodged; the light and sound emitted from their blasts, however, can significantly disorient divers.","Clauncher and Clawitzer rarely attack humans in the wild. They should not be trifled with, however, as their shots can easily shatter bones if they make direct impact. Swimmers should not draw too close to these creatures, as the cavitation bubbles they produce can temporarily blind and deafen those around them. Clawitzer have very poor aim, so their shots are easily dodged; the light and sound emitted from their blasts, however, can significantly disorient divers.","Helioptile are friendly creatures that rarely attack humans. When threatened, however, they will first unfold their frills to deter potential threats. If their attackers do not back off, the tips of their frills will begin to glow and they will stun their opponents with electricity before fleeing. Heliolisk will defend themselves in a similar manner. However, they are a bit warier of strangers than their pre-evolutions and will use their speed to quickly flee from danger.","Helioptile are friendly creatures that rarely attack humans. When threatened, however, they will first unfold their frills to deter potential threats. If their attackers do not back off, the tips of their frills will begin to glow and they will stun their opponents with electricity before fleeing. Heliolisk will defend themselves in a similar manner. However, they are a bit warier of strangers than their pre-evolutions and will use their speed to quickly flee from danger.","Since these Pokémon have long been extinct in the wild, trainers should (luckily) only ever encounter them under the command of other trainers. Even trained Tyrunt should not be approached; they are notoriously disobedient and tend to bite strangers. Fearsome Tyrantrum would be a very grave danger if wild, but usually do not pose much of an issue when trained. It may be comforting to know that a panicked human can run faster than a chasing Tyrantrum.","Since these Pokémon have long been extinct in the wild, trainers should (luckily) only ever encounter them under the command of other trainers. Even trained Tyrunt should not be approached; they are notoriously disobedient and tend to bite strangers. Fearsome Tyrantrum would be a very grave danger if wild, but usually do not pose much of an issue when trained. It may be comforting to know that a panicked human can run faster than a chasing Tyrantrum.","Trainers will likely never encounter these extinct Pokémon in the wild, especially since they would only even be found in the coldest, most bitter reaches of tundras and glaciers. Even so, they are gentle giants that rarely come into conflict with others. They will protect themselves with blocks of ice when threatened. Aurorus may also try to entrap foes in ice to immobilize them, but they will only do this if their attackers persist in trying to harm them.","Trainers will likely never encounter these extinct Pokémon in the wild, especially since they would only even be found in the coldest, most bitter reaches of tundras and glaciers. Even so, they are gentle giants that rarely come into conflict with others. They will protect themselves with blocks of ice when threatened. Aurorus may also try to entrap foes in ice to immobilize them, but they will only do this if their attackers persist in trying to harm them.","Though not aggressive towards humans, each Eeveelution does bring along the expected hazards of their typing. A few do have some unexpected dangers, however. Both Jolteon and Umbreon can bristle their fur to make their hairs sharp enough to pierce the skin. Similarly, Leafeon are able to stiffen their leaves to make them surprisingly sharp. Umbreon will sweat poison from their pores when threatened. Finally, Sylveon’s feelers can be choking hazards for young children.","Hawlucha usually do not attack humans in the wild. They normally stay in the treetops as travelers pass below, as they have no interest in dueling people in battle. There is an exception to this, however; Hawlucha will attack those wearing brightly-colored masks or hoods, as they associate such patterns with opposing Hawlucha. Trainers should be sure to not wear headgear, or at least wear drably-colored pieces, when traveling through their territories.","Dedenne are rarely a significant threat to humans, as their defensive shocks are usually only mildly stunning. They are more of an annoyance than a danger, as families of them living within homes can greatly increase electrical costs for homeowners. Their communication can also interfere with radio waves. Special radio-emitting devices can be used to drive Dedenne away from homes, though they should be used periodically to ensure that they do not return.","These Pokémon are not known to be a threat to humans. Carbink almost never attack enemies in the wild; instead, they simply let their sturdy bodies weather blows and ignore their attackers completely. In the rare case that they do retaliate, they will simply fire beams from the jewels on their heads before fleeing. Carbink are said to be very protective of Diancie, however; it is thought that they will valiantly defend this mythical Pokémon with their lives.","Goomy are not much of a danger to people. They hide away from danger in the wild because they are not well-equipped to defend themselves in direct combat. Sliggoo also dislike fighting, but they are able to excrete coagulated digestive fluids onto opponents that attack them; gloves are recommended when handling anxious individuals. Goodra are friendly Pokémon that rarely get angry, but they can use their elastic horns to strike enemies with powerful punches if threatened.","Goomy are not much of a danger to people. They hide away from danger in the wild because they are not well-equipped to defend themselves in direct combat. Sliggoo also dislike fighting, but they are able to excrete coagulated digestive fluids onto opponents that attack them; gloves are recommended when handling anxious individuals. Goodra are friendly Pokémon that rarely get angry, but they can use their elastic horns to strike enemies with powerful punches if threatened.","Goomy are not much of a danger to people. They hide away from danger in the wild because they are not well-equipped to defend themselves in direct combat. Sliggoo also dislike fighting, but they are able to excrete coagulated digestive fluids onto opponents that attack them; gloves are recommended when handling anxious individuals. Goodra are friendly Pokémon that rarely get angry, but they can use their elastic horns to strike enemies with powerful punches if threatened.","Klefki are more of an annoyance than a threat. They will infamously steal any keys that they find lying around, and they will even take those that they find in unlocked homes. If threatened, Klefki will initially jingle their keys angrily to deter foes, usually to no effect. Continued aggression will force them to utilize status moves to keep them away. The only way to recover stolen keys from a wild Klefki is to defeat it in battle, causing it to drop its stash (much to its despair).","Although many pieces of folklore warn about how Phantump and Trevenant intentionally try and lure travelers into their woods to trap them, there is not much evidence to support this claim. Trevenant may be very protective of their forests, but they will not attack those passing through unless they try to harm the trees. When endangered, Phantump will cry and flee to alert Trevenant, setting entire forests against the transgressors.  ","Although many pieces of folklore warn about how Phantump and Trevenant intentionally try and lure travelers into their woods to trap them, there is not much evidence to support this claim. Trevenant may be very protective of their forests, but they will not attack those passing through unless they try to harm the trees. When endangered, Phantump will cry and flee to alert Trevenant, setting entire forests against the transgressors.  ","Although many people fear these creatures, there is not much evidence to support their superstitious beliefs. Pumpkaboo can sometimes be seen converging at certain locations during the night; it is best to not disturb them during this time, as they seem to be more anxious and prone to attacking. Gourgeist can paralyze enemies in fear with their disturbing singing and entangle them with their arms. They can be aggressive when approached and thus should be left alone.","Although many people fear these creatures, there is not much evidence to support their superstitious beliefs. Pumpkaboo can sometimes be seen converging at certain locations during the night; it is best to not disturb them during this time, as they seem to be more anxious and prone to attacking. Gourgeist can paralyze enemies in fear with their disturbing singing and entangle them with their arms. They can be aggressive when approached and thus should be left alone.","Trainers will rarely come across these Pokémon in the wild, as they live in frigid areas where few ever travel. Avalugg are ambivalent towards humans, who are much smaller than them and rarely pose a threat. They will fiercely defend their young, however, by trying to crush those that endanger them under their heavy bodies. Avalugg floating in water can also be a danger to ships trying to navigate polar seas.","Trainers will rarely come across these Pokémon in the wild, as they live in frigid areas where few ever travel. Avalugg are ambivalent towards humans, who are much smaller than them and rarely pose a threat. They will fiercely defend their young, however, by trying to crush those that endanger them under their heavy bodies. Avalugg floating in water can also be a danger to ships trying to navigate polar seas.","Headphones are very strongly advised when raising Noibat or simply traveling through their territories; a lone Noibat can cause minor headaches, nausea, or dizziness with its sound waves, while a whole roost of them can easily incapacitate a person. Noivern are aggressive and can be very dangerous in dark, winding caves. They can be easily calmed with fruit, however, so spelunkers should be sure to bring along a few Persim Berries just in case.","Headphones are very strongly advised when raising Noibat or simply traveling through their territories; a lone Noibat can cause minor headaches, nausea, or dizziness with its sound waves, while a whole roost of them can easily incapacitate a person. Noivern are aggressive and can be very dangerous in dark, winding caves. They can be easily calmed with fruit, however, so spelunkers should be sure to bring along a few Persim Berries just in case.","","","","","","","Wild individuals of these species are rare. Even so, these Pokémon are nocturnal and prefer to avoid humans, making dangerous encounters rare. All members of this line can easily defend themselves with their precise aim and sharp feathers, however; they can dispatch threats from considerable distance. Dartrix, even trained ones, can be dangerous when their nerves are triggered. It is best to stay away from the Dartrix of other trainers, as they can be easily set off.","Wild individuals of these species are rare. Even so, these Pokémon are nocturnal and prefer to avoid humans, making dangerous encounters rare. All members of this line can easily defend themselves with their precise aim and sharp feathers, however; they can dispatch threats from considerable distance. Dartrix, even trained ones, can be dangerous when their nerves are triggered. It is best to stay away from the Dartrix of other trainers, as they can be easily set off.","Wild individuals of these species are rare. Even so, these Pokémon are nocturnal and prefer to avoid humans, making dangerous encounters rare. All members of this line can easily defend themselves with their precise aim and sharp feathers, however; they can dispatch threats from considerable distance. Dartrix, even trained ones, can be dangerous when their nerves are triggered. It is best to stay away from the Dartrix of other trainers, as they can be easily set off.","These Pokémon are rare in the wild. Litten prefer to stay away from others, but even young ones can defend themselves with ignited fireballs. Torracat will emit a ringing sound from their flame sacs before attacking, giving foes a chance to flee. Incineroar can be dangerous to be around, even when trained, as they may attack recklessly when in heated battles. Though trainers should be able to control their Incineroar, opponents should be ready to act proactively if things go amiss.","These Pokémon are rare in the wild. Litten prefer to stay away from others, but even young ones can defend themselves with ignited fireballs. Torracat will emit a ringing sound from their flame sacs before attacking, giving foes a chance to flee. Incineroar can be dangerous to be around, even when trained, as they may attack recklessly when in heated battles. Though trainers should be able to control their Incineroar, opponents should be ready to act proactively if things go amiss.","These Pokémon are rare in the wild. Litten prefer to stay away from others, but even young ones can defend themselves with ignited fireballs. Torracat will emit a ringing sound from their flame sacs before attacking, giving foes a chance to flee. Incineroar can be dangerous to be around, even when trained, as they may attack recklessly when in heated battles. Though trainers should be able to control their Incineroar, opponents should be ready to act proactively if things go amiss.","None of these Pokémon pose a threat to humans in the wild (they are relatively scarce outside of the care of humans, anyhow). They primarily defend themselves with explosive bubbles. Primarina will also use their singing in battle as a form of attack (such as in the move Sparkling Aria). Since these Pokémon live in colonies, threatening a single individual will likely lead to dozens if not hundreds coming to its defense.","None of these Pokémon pose a threat to humans in the wild (they are relatively scarce outside of the care of humans, anyhow). They primarily defend themselves with explosive bubbles. Primarina will also use their singing in battle as a form of attack (such as in the move Sparkling Aria). Since these Pokémon live in colonies, threatening a single individual will likely lead to dozens if not hundreds coming to its defense.","None of these Pokémon pose a threat to humans in the wild (they are relatively scarce outside of the care of humans, anyhow). They primarily defend themselves with explosive bubbles. Primarina will also use their singing in battle as a form of attack (such as in the move Sparkling Aria). Since these Pokémon live in colonies, threatening a single individual will likely lead to dozens if not hundreds coming to its defense.","These Pokémon are not hostile and will not attack travelers for no reason. They are fiercely protective of their caches and nests, however, with barrages of seeds; trainers should stay away from trees with many holes bored into them, as these are almost certainly Pikipek stashes. Toucannon can fire powerful blasts and should not be trifled with; they will leave alone those who leave them alone. Obviously, one should not touch their searing beaks, especially when they are glowing.","These Pokémon are not hostile and will not attack travelers for no reason. They are fiercely protective of their caches and nests, however, with barrages of seeds; trainers should stay away from trees with many holes bored into them, as these are almost certainly Pikipek stashes. Toucannon can fire powerful blasts and should not be trifled with; they will leave alone those who leave them alone. Obviously, one should not touch their searing beaks, especially when they are glowing.","These Pokémon are not hostile and will not attack travelers for no reason. They are fiercely protective of their caches and nests, however, with barrages of seeds; trainers should stay away from trees with many holes bored into them, as these are almost certainly Pikipek stashes. Toucannon can fire powerful blasts and should not be trifled with; they will leave alone those who leave them alone. Obviously, one should not touch their searing beaks, especially when they are glowing.","Trainers should not approach Yungoos in the wild. They can be irate when hungry, which they usually are. Their sharp teeth can leave deep wounds, and these Pokémon are one of the most common sources of injury for starting Alolan trainers. Luckily, Yungoos do not stray from their patrol paths, so it is easy to watch one and take care to avoid it. Gumshoos focus on their current prey with all of their concentration; it is very difficult to provoke one into attacking.","Trainers should not approach Yungoos in the wild. They can be irate when hungry, which they usually are. Their sharp teeth can leave deep wounds, and these Pokémon are one of the most common sources of injury for starting Alolan trainers. Luckily, Yungoos do not stray from their patrol paths, so it is easy to watch one and take care to avoid it. Gumshoos focus on their current prey with all of their concentration; it is very difficult to provoke one into attacking.","Vikavolt are the only members of this family that are actively hostile. Grubbin and Charjabug prefer to remain out of sight underground and try to conserve as much energy as possible by only attacking when directly threatened. Their bites and electrical shocks can be painful, however. Territorial Vikavolt, however, will fire powerful beams at those intruding onto their land. Trainers should bring trusty Fire- or Rock-types when traveling through their domains.","Vikavolt are the only members of this family that are actively hostile. Grubbin and Charjabug prefer to remain out of sight underground and try to conserve as much energy as possible by only attacking when directly threatened. Their bites and electrical shocks can be painful, however. Territorial Vikavolt, however, will fire powerful beams at those intruding onto their land. Trainers should bring trusty Fire- or Rock-types when traveling through their domains.","Vikavolt are the only members of this family that are actively hostile. Grubbin and Charjabug prefer to remain out of sight underground and try to conserve as much energy as possible by only attacking when directly threatened. Their bites and electrical shocks can be painful, however. Territorial Vikavolt, however, will fire powerful beams at those intruding onto their land. Trainers should bring trusty Fire- or Rock-types when traveling through their domains.","Crabrawler are quick to punch others and should not be approached in the wild. Tall people particularly have problems with these Pokémon, as they have a habit of climbing atop their heads and not moving. The only way to get a Crabrawler to move without getting punched is to provide it somewhere taller to climb onto. Crabominable are almost never seen in the wild because of their severe habitats. They punch about wildly but rarely approach humans intentionally.","Crabrawler are quick to punch others and should not be approached in the wild. Tall people particularly have problems with these Pokémon, as they have a habit of climbing atop their heads and not moving. The only way to get a Crabrawler to move without getting punched is to provide it somewhere taller to climb onto. Crabominable are almost never seen in the wild because of their severe habitats. They punch about wildly but rarely approach humans intentionally.","Oricorio are actually very protective of the flowers that they sip from. When their meadows are approached, they will circle in the sky above to prepare for attack. Stepping on or picking their flowers will prompt them to dive in and use Revelation Dance. They will rarely ever attack travelers unless their blooms are directly endangered, however. Baile Style Oricorio are said to be the most aggressive, while Pa’u Style Oricorio are said to be the least.","Cutiefly are practically harmless creatures; they rely on their small size and nimble flight to keep away from danger. Swarms of them may cluster around the heads of those feeling strong emotions, which can be a great annoyance (especially if one was already upset). Ribombee are usually friendly and may offer Pollen Puffs to amiable travelers. They can also defend themselves with harmful Puffs, however; one should never eat a Pollen Puff without knowing what is inside.","Cutiefly are practically harmless creatures; they rely on their small size and nimble flight to keep away from danger. Swarms of them may cluster around the heads of those feeling strong emotions, which can be a great annoyance (especially if one was already upset). Ribombee are usually friendly and may offer Pollen Puffs to amiable travelers. They can also defend themselves with harmful Puffs, however; one should never eat a Pollen Puff without knowing what is inside.","Though cute and not usually aggressive, trainers should not underestimate wild Rockruff. These creatures are solitary even when young and can easily defend themselves with their sharp fangs. Lycanroc prefer to avoid others entirely. Midday Form ones will use their speed to escape from danger, while Midnight Form ones will not attack unless struck first. Midnight Lycanroc may try to goad trainers into attacking by taunting them; ignorance is the best defense in this case.","Though cute and not usually aggressive, trainers should not underestimate wild Rockruff. These creatures are solitary even when young and can easily defend themselves with their sharp fangs. Lycanroc prefer to avoid others entirely. Midday Form ones will use their speed to escape from danger, while Midnight Form ones will not attack unless struck first. Midnight Lycanroc may try to goad trainers into attacking by taunting them; ignorance is the best defense in this case.","Experienced swimmers and divers rightfully warn travelers to avoid threatening these tiny creatures. Gigantic School Form Wishiwashi make even the strongest Pokémon flee with the combined attacks of hundreds if not thousands. If one sees a Solo Form Wishiwashi’s eyes begin to water, it is time to swim away. The best way to avoid a school of Wishiwashi is to simply hide; their size makes it hard for them to reach small areas, and they must eventually disperse and separate.","Even new swimmers will instinctively know to avoid these horned Pokémon. In addition to their sharp spikes, both evolutions are poisonous as well; they can fire their spikes from afar to defend themselves. Luckily, they will only attack divers that get too close or interfere with their Corsola horns. Accidental contact is somewhat common, however, since it can be hard to spot these Pokémon in vibrant reefs. Still, their poison is not fatal, and most effects subside in three days.","Even new swimmers will instinctively know to avoid these horned Pokémon. In addition to their sharp spikes, both evolutions are poisonous as well; they can fire their spikes from afar to defend themselves. Luckily, they will only attack divers that get too close or interfere with their Corsola horns. Accidental contact is somewhat common, however, since it can be hard to spot these Pokémon in vibrant reefs. Still, their poison is not fatal, and most effects subside in three days.","These Pokémon defend themselves with their powerful hooves. Even wild individuals, however, rarely attack humans, as their sheer bulk and sturdiness usually keeps most foes at bay. Mudbray can kick an adult human a sizable distance away, while Mudsdale can crush metal with their stomps, however. Given these facts, it goes without saying that travelers should avoid provoking these usually-mild Pokémon, especially by keeping them away from their mud.","These Pokémon defend themselves with their powerful hooves. Even wild individuals, however, rarely attack humans, as their sheer bulk and sturdiness usually keeps most foes at bay. Mudbray can kick an adult human a sizable distance away, while Mudsdale can crush metal with their stomps, however. Given these facts, it goes without saying that travelers should avoid provoking these usually-mild Pokémon, especially by keeping them away from their mud.","Dewpider can attack with surprisingly strong headbutts with their bubble-covered heads. Araquanid are more of a threat, as they are large enough to pin and potentially drown adult humans. Both evolutions can also deliver powerful, painful bites. Luckily, these Pokémon are usually not aggressive towards humans and rarely attack unless provoked. Araquanid will fiercely defend Pokémon they have decided to rescue in their bubbles, however. Trainers should be aware that trained Araquanid may try to engulf them in their helmets to \"protect\" them from harm, and must be taught that this in fact is not at all a helpful maneuver.","Dewpider can attack with surprisingly strong headbutts with their bubble-covered heads. Araquanid are more of a threat, as they are large enough to pin and potentially drown adult humans. Both evolutions can also deliver powerful, painful bites. Luckily, these Pokémon are usually not aggressive towards humans and rarely attack unless provoked. Araquanid will fiercely defend Pokémon they have decided to rescue in their bubbles, however. Trainers should be aware that trained Araquanid may try to engulf them in their helmets to \"protect\" them from harm, and must be taught that this in fact is not at all a helpful maneuver.","Fomantis very much dislike being disturbed. Since they often hide in tall grass, travelers may stumble upon them by accident. Luckily, they prefer to conserve energy and avoid attacking, so they only pose a huge threat if purposefully cornered. Lurantis are more territorial, but they are also ambush predators that observe intruders before striking. They usually leave travelers that do not appear to be immediate threats alone, remaining in hiding to surprise future prey.","Fomantis very much dislike being disturbed. Since they often hide in tall grass, travelers may stumble upon them by accident. Luckily, they prefer to conserve energy and avoid attacking, so they only pose a huge threat if purposefully cornered. Lurantis are more territorial, but they are also ambush predators that observe intruders before striking. They usually leave travelers that do not appear to be immediate threats alone, remaining in hiding to surprise future prey.","Morelull pose little danger to travelers, as they usually keep to themselves. They will release soporific spores if cornered, which will eventually explode in dazzling flashes of light. Shiinotic territory, however, should be avoided at all costs until the sun rises. Fixating upon their mesmerizing spores for too long can spell doom for any traveler. It is better to turn back and leave the woods early than to risk spending the night in known Shiinotic habitats.","Morelull pose little danger to travelers, as they usually keep to themselves. They will release soporific spores if cornered, which will eventually explode in dazzling flashes of light. Shiinotic territory, however, should be avoided at all costs until the sun rises. Fixating upon their mesmerizing spores for too long can spell doom for any traveler. It is better to turn back and leave the woods early than to risk spending the night in known Shiinotic habitats.","Both of these Pokémon can emit sweet-smelling, poisonous gases that cause dizziness and nausea. It is often hard to notice one is being poisoned until these symptoms are felt because of the pleasant smell. More obviously, these Pokémon can also spew fire. Lone Salandit are meek, but they will fight without regard for their own safety in defense of their Salazzle. If one angers a Salazzle, one should prefer to battle its entire harem of Salandit.","Both of these Pokémon can emit sweet-smelling, poisonous gases that cause dizziness and nausea. It is often hard to notice one is being poisoned until these symptoms are felt because of the pleasant smell. More obviously, these Pokémon can also spew fire. Lone Salandit are meek, but they will fight without regard for their own safety in defense of their Salazzle. If one angers a Salazzle, one should prefer to battle its entire harem of Salandit.","Do not approach these Pokémon, whether in the wild or with a trainer. Stufful can flail their limbs with great force and will instinctively do so when touched. Bewear wield enough power to snap bone with ease and are largely unaware of their own strength. They will try to express their good intentions with deadly hugs. Even trained Bewear only control their strength as much as their trainers have taught them to, so one should stay a good distance away from them as well.","Do not approach these Pokémon, whether in the wild or with a trainer. Stufful can flail their limbs with great force and will instinctively do so when touched. Bewear wield enough power to snap bone with ease and are largely unaware of their own strength. They will try to express their good intentions with deadly hugs. Even trained Bewear only control their strength as much as their trainers have taught them to, so one should stay a good distance away from them as well.","Bounsweet themselves are harmless and will usually flee when they sight humans. Travelers should not follow them, however, as they are usually bouncing to the safety of Tsareena. Tsareena very much dislike being approached without permission and will not hesitate to dole out powerful kicks. Trainers should keep their heads down and stay a respectable distance away when they sight them. Steenee are not hostile, but they can leave bruises with their calyxes if approached.","Bounsweet themselves are harmless and will usually flee when they sight humans. Travelers should not follow them, however, as they are usually bouncing to the safety of Tsareena. Tsareena very much dislike being approached without permission and will not hesitate to dole out powerful kicks. Trainers should keep their heads down and stay a respectable distance away when they sight them. Steenee are not hostile, but they can leave bruises with their calyxes if approached.","Bounsweet themselves are harmless and will usually flee when they sight humans. Travelers should not follow them, however, as they are usually bouncing to the safety of Tsareena. Tsareena very much dislike being approached without permission and will not hesitate to dole out powerful kicks. Trainers should keep their heads down and stay a respectable distance away when they sight them. Steenee are not hostile, but they can leave bruises with their calyxes if approached.","Comfey are harmless Pokémon, even in the wild. They are friendly creatures that may even approach travelers to heal them and their Pokémon. If they feel threatened, they will simply throw their flower rings as a distraction while they flee.","Oranguru are peaceful Pokémon; some would even go as far as to say that they are pacifists in the wild. They seclude themselves high in the canopies in forests so that they will only be found by those that intentionally seek to find them. Jungle travelers may search for Oranguru when they need medicine or healing, but they should know that Oranguru will turn down those that disrespect it or the other Pokémon of the forest.","It is very unwise to anger these Pokémon in the wild. Their unparalleled teamwork allows them to take down foes much stronger than any one of them alone. When one of their teammates is in danger, they will stop at nothing to keep them safe. Luckily Passimian rarely attack without reason. They usually will keep to themselves as they train or gather Berries. Travelers should not pick Berries in their general vicinities, however, as these Pokémon will see this as a challenge.","Neither of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to travelers. Both species will flee when they sense people approaching. They will only defend themselves if cornered, and even so, only for long enough to buy time for an escape. Wimpod can spew poisonous fluids while Golisopod can slash with their powerful claws. Since both evolutions will flee before attacking, however, simply backing away will give them enough space to avoid conflict.","Neither of these Pokémon pose much of a threat to travelers. Both species will flee when they sense people approaching. They will only defend themselves if cornered, and even so, only for long enough to buy time for an escape. Wimpod can spew poisonous fluids while Golisopod can slash with their powerful claws. Since both evolutions will flee before attacking, however, simply backing away will give them enough space to avoid conflict.","As a rule of thumb, never approach errant shovels on the beach, for they may in fact be these Pokémon in hiding. Sandygast cannot do much unless their shovels are grabbed; even when they are, they usually only command others to build them up instead of actually harming them. Palossand are much more dangerous because of their sandy vortexes. These creatures are luckily rather immobile, so steering clear of odd shovels should be enough to avoid danger. In Sandygast habitats, knock down piles of sand before leaving beaches to protect future visitors from potential incidents.","As a rule of thumb, never approach errant shovels on the beach, for they may in fact be these Pokémon in hiding. Sandygast cannot do much unless their shovels are grabbed; even when they are, they usually only command others to build them up instead of actually harming them. Palossand are much more dangerous because of their sandy vortexes. These creatures are luckily rather immobile, so steering clear of odd shovels should be enough to avoid danger. In Sandygast habitats, knock down piles of sand before leaving beaches to protect future visitors from potential incidents.","Pyukumuku will not bother those that do not bother them first. On beaches where they often perch themselves, however, this may be easier said than done. It can be easy to step on these Pokémon when they are partially buried in the sand, and doing so will make them retaliate with resounding punches using their innards. If one chooses to throw them back into the sea, one must be careful of touching their mouths or spikes; brushing either will cause them to strike.","A researcher that abandoned the Beast Killer Project before its termination recalled that the Type: Null began attacking the scientists outfitting them with the RKS Systems while writhing in pain; she stated the event was why she left the position. There are no Type: Null or Silvally currently outside the ownership or care of specific trainers and organizations.","A researcher that abandoned the Beast Killer Project before its termination recalled that the Type: Null began attacking the scientists outfitting them with the RKS Systems while writhing in pain; she stated the event was why she left the position. There are no Type: Null or Silvally currently outside the ownership or care of specific trainers and organizations.","Trainers rarely will encounter Minior unless they are high up on mountain peaks or witnessing them fall to the ground. The largest danger Minior pose to travelers actually occurs with the latter, as crashing Minior can cause significant damage if they make a direct hit. Even close calls can leave minor injuries from shrapnel. “Minior showers” occur when groups of Minior pass through large dust clouds and subsequently fall in unison; such events, though rare, are very dangerous.","Komala are rarely a danger to trainers, as they usually keep to themselves high up in the treetops. They are irked by continued loud noises, however, and have been known to blindly knock down branches onto raucous groups of travelers as if to silence them. Thrashing Komala can only strike in the general direction of danger; they may accidentally hit others nearby as they flail. Those that let sleeping Komala lie will almost never be bothered, however.","Never approach Turtonator in the wild. They are ambush predators that will almost never attack without being provoked. Their volatile shells can create explosions that can knock people off their feet even from a distance, however. Trainers must be wary when crossing volcanic ranges, as these Pokémon can be easy to miss in smoky areas (especially when travelers are too occupied to look down). Never attack these Pokémon from up close; pressure can easily trigger explosions.","Togedemaru are not aggressive. When provoked, they will first curl up into balls with their spikes raised to deter attackers. If this fails, they will electrocute enemies with electricity. Touching their spikes or lightning rods can deliver small shocks. In areas where these Pokémon are found, trainers should steer clear of open clearings where they gather, as lightning will inevitably strike where many of them are present.","Mimikyu love human affection and almost never attack those that give them attention. Trainers should never touch wild Mimikyu, however, as they are very protective of their costumes and will lash out with their shadowy arms to keep them intact. One should never lift a Mimikyu’s cloth; not only will this provoke them into attacking, but it may also reveal their true bodies; it is said this sight can cause great sickness to befall upon onlookers.","Despite their fearsome jaws, Bruxish are rarely a threat to humans. They do not bite unless they are significantly provoked; even when their protuberances are stepped on, they usually remain buried in the sand. Their grinding teeth can induce headaches over time, but since they can only be heard while underwater, most swimmers are not in range long enough for this to occur. Those that intentionally disturb Bruxish will likely be bitten with their fearsome teeth, however.","Most of the time, Drampa are very peaceful and friendly Pokémon that pose no danger to humans. They are comfortable being touched and even ridden, especially around kids. They will enrage and go berserk when children near them are imperiled, however; in such states, they cannot be reasoned with, and they will attack blindly until they see to it that the children are safe. Young ones should be evacuated from the area until Drampa calm down.","Divers should not approach Dhelmise. Though they are not actively aggressive, the sheer weight of their anchors can make even nonchalant swings very dangerous. Drawing too close to them may also cause them to attack in self-defense. Sailors warn that these Pokémon sometimes attack ships, presumably for parts; there have been no confirmed cases of Dhelmise intentionally going after human vessels, however.","Because Jangmo-o live so far from humans, most people rarely encounter them. They are protective of their groups and will stand together when a member is threatened. Adventurous Hakamo-o may come across travelers as they search for opponents; they will try to initiate fights, but will walk away if their foes appear unwilling. Kommo-o do not bother with those who back away when they approach. Those who remain unmoving in their paths, though, should prepare for battle.","Because Jangmo-o live so far from humans, most people rarely encounter them. They are protective of their groups and will stand together when a member is threatened. Adventurous Hakamo-o may come across travelers as they search for opponents; they will try to initiate fights, but will walk away if their foes appear unwilling. Kommo-o do not bother with those who back away when they approach. Those who remain unmoving in their paths, though, should prepare for battle.","Because Jangmo-o live so far from humans, most people rarely encounter them. They are protective of their groups and will stand together when a member is threatened. Adventurous Hakamo-o may come across travelers as they search for opponents; they will try to initiate fights, but will walk away if their foes appear unwilling. Kommo-o do not bother with those who back away when they approach. Those who remain unmoving in their paths, though, should prepare for battle.","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","These Pokémon are not aggressive, though they can be quite curious when it comes to human travelers--Grookey and Thwackey especially so. All evolutions are fiercely protective of their troops and will swiftly come to the defense of other members in the face of danger. Rillaboom welcome an audience to their performances, but it is taboo to try to harm or catch any of the other wild Pokémon attending; trainers that attempt this may find the entire forest, RIillaboom included, turning on them at once.","These Pokémon are not aggressive, though they can be quite curious when it comes to human travelers--Grookey and Thwackey especially so. All evolutions are fiercely protective of their troops and will swiftly come to the defense of other members in the face of danger. Rillaboom welcome an audience to their performances, but it is taboo to try to harm or catch any of the other wild Pokémon attending; trainers that attempt this may find the entire forest, RIillaboom included, turning on them at once.","These Pokémon are not aggressive, though they can be quite curious when it comes to human travelers--Grookey and Thwackey especially so. All evolutions are fiercely protective of their troops and will swiftly come to the defense of other members in the face of danger. Rillaboom welcome an audience to their performances, but it is taboo to try to harm or catch any of the other wild Pokémon attending; trainers that attempt this may find the entire forest, Rillaboom included, turning on them at once.","These Pokémon tend to be rare in the wild. Their speed allows them to flee from potential danger well before it approaches, so antagonistic encounters with humans are rare. If cornered, Scorbunny can deliver burning kicks using the soles of their feet, while Raboot and Cinderace can launch flaming pebbles to burn and bruise attackers. Interrupting a practicing Raboot or Cinderace is a good way to anger them and provoke them into attacking.","These Pokémon tend to be rare in the wild. Their speed allows them to flee from potential danger well before it approaches, so antagonistic encounters with humans are rare. If cornered, Scorbunny can deliver burning kicks using the soles of their feet, while Raboot and Cinderace can launch flaming pebbles to burn and bruise attackers. Interrupting a practicing Raboot or Cinderace is a good way to anger them and provoke them into attacking.","These Pokémon tend to be rare in the wild. Their speed allows them to flee from potential danger well before it approaches, so antagonistic encounters with humans are rare. If cornered, Scorbunny can deliver burning kicks using the soles of their feet, while Raboot and Cinderace can launch flaming pebbles to burn and bruise attackers. Interrupting a practicing Raboot or Cinderace is a good way to anger them and provoke them into attacking.","These Pokémon are excellent at stealth, and as such it is unlikely that traveling trainers will run into them by accident. Sobble can cry tears that will make all those around them cry as well, though they will flee immediately afterwards. Drizzile are the most likely to cause trainers trouble, setting traps that are well-hidden enough to fool humans and throwing balloons of water at those who disturb them. Sharp-eyed Inteleon can shoot blasts of water from afar, and trainers will know if they are trespassing one's territory after a well-aimed warning shot just in front of their eyes.","These Pokémon are excellent at stealth, and as such it is unlikely that traveling trainers will run into them by accident. Sobble can cry tears that will make all those around them cry as well, though they will flee immediately afterwards. Drizzile are the most likely to cause trainers trouble, setting traps that are well-hidden enough to fool humans and throwing balloons of water at those who disturb them. Sharp-eyed Inteleon can shoot blasts of water from afar, and trainers will know if they are trespassing one's territory after a well-aimed warning shot just in front of their eyes.","These Pokémon are excellent at stealth, and as such it is unlikely that traveling trainers will run into them by accident. Sobble can cry tears that will make all those around them cry as well, though they will flee immediately afterwards. Drizzile are the most likely to cause trainers trouble, setting traps that are well-hidden enough to fool humans and throwing balloons of water at those who disturb them. Sharp-eyed Inteleon can shoot blasts of water from afar, and trainers will know if they are trespassing one's territory after a well-aimed warning shot just in front of their eyes.","Skwovet are infamous for dropping out of Berry trees on unsuspecting farmers simply trying to harvest them. This also goes for trainers picking from wild Berry trees; one should keep an eye out for rustling in the canopy before approaching a Berry tree. Skwovet and Greedent are also attracted to Berries trainers and Pokémon are carrying around, and may chew through the backpacks of camping travelers to get at them. Their senses of smell are not particularly great, so they rely mostly on sight to identify Berry stashes. Keeping Berries hidden while near the habitats of these Pokémon is a wise idea.","Skwovet are infamous for dropping out of Berry trees on unsuspecting farmers simply trying to harvest them. This also goes for trainers picking from wild Berry trees; one should keep an eye out for rustling in the canopy before approaching a Berry tree. Skwovet and Greedent are also attracted to Berries trainers and Pokémon are carrying around, and may chew through the backpacks of camping travelers to get at them. Their senses of smell are not particularly great, so they rely mostly on sight to identify Berry stashes. Keeping Berries hidden while near the habitats of these Pokémon is a wise idea.","Feisty Rookidee may try to pick fights with hapless travelers they come across; however, they will give up eventually if their targets do not give in to their goading. They rarely mean to cause actual harm to humans, instead aiming only to hone their own skills. Intelligent Corvisquire and Corviknight are unlikely to pick fights with people. These Pokémon have long memories and will remember the faces of those who do them wrong. Corviknight are exceptionally perceptive of body language and are said to be able to tell if someone is planning to cause trouble before they even act. Their steely bodies make them formidable foes if angered.","Feisty Rookidee may try to pick fights with hapless travelers they come across; however, they will give up eventually if their targets do not give in to their goading. They rarely mean to cause actual harm to humans, instead aiming only to hone their own skills. Intelligent Corvisquire and Corviknight are unlikely to pick fights with people. These Pokémon have long memories and will remember the faces of those who do them wrong. Corviknight are exceptionally perceptive of body language and are said to be able to tell if someone is planning to cause trouble before they even act. Their steely bodies make them formidable foes if angered.","Feisty Rookidee may try to pick fights with hapless travelers they come across; however, they will give up eventually if their targets do not give in to their goading. They rarely mean to cause actual harm to humans, instead aiming only to hone their own skills. Intelligent Corvisquire and Corviknight are unlikely to pick fights with people. These Pokémon have long memories and will remember the faces of those who do them wrong. Corviknight are exceptionally perceptive of body language and are said to be able to tell if someone is planning to cause trouble before they even act. Their steely bodies make them formidable foes if angered.","Blipbug are harmless in this evolutionary stage, but they do hold incredibly long grudges. Dottler similarly cannot do much, but can release a burst of psychic energy to stun opponents in a pinch. Orbeetle, however, wield formidable psychic energy and are very wary of others. An Orbeetle can almost never be caught off-guard due to their abilities, but they may try to flee rather than fight if they sense a powerful Rock-, Fire-, or Flying-type Pokémon. Trainers that had upset weak Blipbug or Dottler may find themselves the target of vengeful Orbeetle later on in life.","Blipbug are harmless in this evolutionary stage, but they do hold incredibly long grudges. Dottler similarly cannot do much, but can release a burst of psychic energy to stun opponents in a pinch. Orbeetle, however, wield formidable psychic energy and are very wary of others. An Orbeetle can almost never be caught off-guard due to their abilities, but they may try to flee rather than fight if they sense a powerful Rock-, Fire-, or Flying-type Pokémon. Trainers that had upset weak Blipbug or Dottler may find themselves the target of vengeful Orbeetle later on in life.","Blipbug are harmless in this evolutionary stage, but they do hold incredibly long grudges. Dottler similarly cannot do much, but can release a burst of psychic energy to stun opponents in a pinch. Orbeetle, however, wield formidable psychic energy and are very wary of others. An Orbeetle can almost never be caught off-guard due to their abilities, but they may try to flee rather than fight if they sense a powerful Rock-, Fire-, or Flying-type Pokémon. Trainers that had upset weak Blipbug or Dottler may find themselves the target of vengeful Orbeetle later on in life.","The main danger these Pokémon pose is through their discreet thievery rather than direct conflict. In areas where these Pokémon dwell, it is imperative to keep one's belongings locked up tight. They can sneak into unzipped tents in the dead of night without waking the occupants, so simply keeping things near one's person is not sufficient. If a Pokémon with a good sense of smell begins to act unusual, keep an eye out; a Thievul may be marking easy targets with its scent somewhere nearby.","The main danger these Pokémon pose is through their discreet thievery rather than direct conflict. In areas where these Pokémon dwell, it is imperative to keep one's belongings locked up tight. They can sneak into unzipped tents in the dead of night without waking the occupants, so simply keeping things near one's person is not sufficient. If a Pokémon with a good sense of smell begins to act unusual, keep an eye out; a Thievul may be marking easy targets with its scent somewhere nearby.","These Pokémon are not very dangerous. They prefer to float away from trouble rather than fight it. As they float together on breezes, however, they do tend to be present in large numbers. Gossifleur pollen and Eldegoss cotton both can trigger allergic reactions in those who are susceptible. When they swarm, these reactions can be quite intense; even people and Pokémon who normally experience no effects may end up with runny noses and teary eyes during their peak season. Antihistamines and pollen masks are advised for those traveling through areas where they are abundant.","These Pokémon are not very dangerous. They prefer to float away from trouble rather than fight it. As they float together on breezes, however, they do tend to be present in large numbers. Gossifleur pollen and Eldegoss cotton both can trigger allergic reactions in those who are susceptible. When they swarm, these reactions can be quite intense; even people and Pokémon who normally experience no effects may end up with runny noses and teary eyes during their peak season. Antihistamines and pollen masks are advised for those traveling through areas where they are abundant.","Rolling Wooloo are a perennial problem for rural travelers, as they can tumble down hills in huge herds without watching where they are going. These Pokémon can be easily heard well before they are seen, so trainers should keep their ears open whenever they are in farm country. Dubwool may charge at enemies if threatened, but they cannot actually gore anyone with their horns. Still, their bouncy fur will likely knock unfortunate targets right on their bottoms with surprising force.","Rolling Wooloo are a perennial problem for rural travelers, as they can tumble down hills in huge herds without watching where they are going. These Pokémon can be easily heard well before they are seen, so trainers should keep their ears open whenever they are in farm country. Dubwool may charge at enemies if threatened, but they cannot actually gore anyone with their horns. Still, their bouncy fur will likely knock unfortunate targets right on their bottoms with surprising force.","It is well-advised to stay away from these Pokémon in the wild. Big-headed Chewtle and lumbering Drednaw are easy to spot from afar. However, if one can see a Drednaw, it can see oneself as well, and it will likely be angry. Drednaw are surprisingly quick and can extend their necks to bite at an even further range. They cannot stray too far from the water's edge, however, so the best course of action is to retreat from the water as quickly as possible. The same goes for Chewtle, though they tend to both be slower and give up the chase more easily.","It is well-advised to stay away from these Pokémon in the wild. Big-headed Chewtle and lumbering Drednaw are easy to spot from afar. However, if one can see a Drednaw, it can see oneself as well, and it will likely be angry. Drednaw are surprisingly quick and can extend their necks to bite at an even further range. They cannot stray too far from the water's edge, however, so the best course of action is to retreat from the water as quickly as possible. The same goes for Chewtle, though they tend to both be slower and give up the chase more easily.","Yamper cannot hold any electricity, so they immediately begin to discharge it into their surroundings when they run. Though it may be tempting to pet a Yamper sprinting nearby, doing so can result in an unpleasant shock. Boltund packs are protective of one another and will attack if they believe a pack member is threatened. The scent of Thievul is also known to make them lose control, though it is more likely they will hunt down the Thievul the scent belongs to rather than the person or Pokémon that was marked.","Yamper cannot hold any electricity, so they immediately begin to discharge it into their surroundings when they run. Though it may be tempting to pet a Yamper sprinting nearby, doing so can result in an unpleasant shock. Boltund packs are protective of one another and will attack if they believe a pack member is threatened. The scent of Thievul is also known to make them lose control, though it is more likely they will hunt down the Thievul the scent belongs to rather than the person or Pokémon that was marked.","Rolycoly zoom about at high-speeds right underfoot of travelers, making them a tripping hazard in already-dark mines and caverns. Carkol and Coalossal can produce immense amounts of smoke and heat just going about their days, which can cause hazardous conditions in poorly-ventilated underground areas. No evolutions of this line are hostile to passerby, however. Coalossal are extremely protective of coal deposits, though, and do not take kindly to miners or those who would otherwise seek to damage these areas.","Rolycoly zoom about at high-speeds right underfoot of travelers, making them a tripping hazard in already-dark mines and caverns. Carkol and Coalossal can produce immense amounts of smoke and heat just going about their days, which can cause hazardous conditions in poorly-ventilated underground areas. No evolutions of this line are hostile to passerby, however. Coalossal are extremely protective of coal deposits, though, and do not take kindly to miners or those who would otherwise seek to damage these areas.","Rolycoly zoom about at high-speeds right underfoot of travelers, making them a tripping hazard in already-dark mines and caverns. Carkol and Coalossal can produce immense amounts of smoke and heat just going about their days, which can cause hazardous conditions in poorly-ventilated underground areas. No evolutions of this line are hostile to passerby, however. Coalossal are extremely protective of coal deposits, though, and do not take kindly to miners or those who would otherwise seek to damage these areas.","Applin are more or less harmless to humans. Flapple, however, can spit caustic acid to defend themselves, which can easily leave a nasty burn. They are also known to drop apples from great heights onto attackers below. Appletun are usually docile, but the bugs that they attract can get aggressive if they feel their nectar source is threatened. Trainers that touch their backs may also come to learn that their sticky nectar is both difficult to wash off as well as highly enticing to Bug-type Pokémon.","Applin are more or less harmless to humans. Flapple, however, can spit caustic acid to defend themselves, which can easily leave a nasty burn. They are also known to drop apples from great heights onto attackers below. Appletun are usually docile, but the bugs that they attract can get aggressive if they feel their nectar source is threatened. Trainers that touch their backs may also come to learn that their sticky nectar is both difficult to wash off as well as highly enticing to Bug-type Pokémon.","Applin are more or less harmless to humans. Flapple, however, can spit caustic acid to defend themselves, which can easily leave a nasty burn. They are also known to drop apples from great heights onto attackers below. Appletun are usually docile, but the bugs that they attract can get aggressive if they feel their nectar source is threatened. Trainers that touch their backs may also come to learn that their sticky nectar is both difficult to wash off as well as highly enticing to Bug-type Pokémon.","Silicobra are reticent Pokémon that dislike confrontation, so they will not bother trainers unless bothered first. Because they often stay buried, however, they may accidentally be stepped upon by desert travelers. However, they are not venomous, and at most may temporarily blind trainers with sand (though goggles are certainly recommended for desert treks). The sandstorms Sandaconda can spew are more dangerous than the Pokémon themselves.","Silicobra are reticent Pokémon that dislike confrontation, so they will not bother trainers unless bothered first. Because they often stay buried, however, they may accidentally be stepped upon by desert travelers. However, they are not venomous, and at most may temporarily blind trainers with sand (though goggles are certainly recommended for desert treks). The sandstorms Sandaconda can spew are more dangerous than the Pokémon themselves.","Cramorant are not hostile Pokémon. If left alone, it is unlikely that they will cause passing trainers any trouble. Trainers with small Pokémon, however, should keep them recalled while near Cramorant nesting grounds, as these greedy Pokémon will see any mouthful-size creatures as potential meals. Attacking a Cramorant with prey stuck in its throat will cause it to launch out its meal with great force. As these Pokémon nest in large colonies, it is unwise to anger a line Cramorant lest it calls upon its entire colony for aid.","Wild Arrokuda and Barraskewda pose a great danger to swimmers, as they will charge at anything that moves. Beaches that are home to these Pokémon will prohibit swimming. In the wild, trainers can check the water for their presence by waving a stick or branch beneath the surface for a few minutes; the movement should attract any Arrokuda and Barraskewda that are nearby. Wooden boats should also steer clear of their habitats unless they have metal-lined hulls to avoid punctures.","Wild Arrokuda and Barraskewda pose a great danger to swimmers, as they will charge at anything that moves. Beaches that are home to these Pokémon will prohibit swimming. In the wild, trainers can check the water for their presence by waving a stick or branch beneath the surface for a few minutes; the movement should attract any Arrokuda and Barraskewda that are nearby. Wooden boats should also steer clear of their habitats unless they have metal-lined hulls to avoid punctures.","Both Pokémon are capable of wielding both poisons and electrical energy, and should not be trifled with in the wild. Toxel and Low Key Form Toxtricity are unlikely to bother travelers unless provoked. Amped Form Toxtricity, however, are much shorter-tempered and eager to pick fights. Because these Pokémon tend to be quite loud, however, trainers should not have much difficulty avoiding their habitats by staying away from the sound of bass guitar strumming.","Both Pokémon are capable of wielding both poisons and electrical energy, and should not be trifled with in the wild. Toxel and Low Key Form Toxtricity are unlikely to bother travelers unless provoked. Amped Form Toxtricity, however, are much shorter-tempered and eager to pick fights. Because these Pokémon tend to be quite loud, however, trainers should not have much difficulty avoiding their habitats by staying away from the sound of bass guitar strumming.","Sizzlipede try not to bother creatures larger than themselves, so they should not give human travelers much trouble. They will often hide in compost, however, and may ignite their piles if accidentally stepped on. Centiskorch are extremely hostile and should be avoided; they territories are easily distinguished by burn marks and a general increase in temperature. Water, even small amounts (such as what can be contained in a water bottle), is very effective at keeping aggressive Centiskorch at bay if one must pass through their territory.","Sizzlipede try not to bother creatures larger than themselves, so they should not give human travelers much trouble. They will often hide in compost, however, and may ignite their piles if accidentally stepped on. Centiskorch are extremely hostile and should be avoided; they territories are easily distinguished by burn marks and a general increase in temperature. Water, even small amounts (such as what can be contained in a water bottle), is very effective at keeping aggressive Centiskorch at bay if one must pass through their territory.","Trainers should steer clear of both evolutions in the wild. Though not hostile, curious Clobbopus will punch new things--including strangers--in order to learn more about them. Naturally, this can be cause for serious injury considering their strength. They are not particularly fast creatures on land, though, so escape should not be a huge issue. Grapploct are feisty duelists that will challenge anyone they see as worthy opponents. If challenged by a wild Grapploct, simply ignore its taunts, however hurtful; they are honorable fighters that will not strike an opponent that does not wish to duel.","Trainers should steer clear of both evolutions in the wild. Though not hostile, curious Clobbopus will punch new things--including strangers--in order to learn more about them. Naturally, this can be cause for serious injury considering their strength. They are not particularly fast creatures on land, though, so escape should not be a huge issue. Grapploct are feisty duelists that will challenge anyone they see as worthy opponents. If challenged by a wild Grapploct, simply ignore its taunts, however hurtful; they are honorable fighters that will not strike an opponent that does not wish to duel.","Sinistea intentionally try to fool humans by mimicking tea-serving vessels. It is easy to distinguish Sinistea if one is paying attention by its unnatural purple color, but a careless trainer may fail to notice this. If consumed, Sinistea will taste quite disgusting and will consume a bit of life force from the drinker, but luckily it does not require much. Wild Polteageist prefer to not be imbibed at all and will not actively try to get humans to drink them, but they will launch their tea to defend themselves if picked up. Again, this is not a life-threatening incident, but it is supremely unpleasant; chills, weakness, and dizziness are the most common symptoms of Polteageist tea ingestion.","Sinistea intentionally try to fool humans by mimicking tea-serving vessels. It is easy to distinguish Sinistea if one is paying attention by its unnatural purple color, but a careless trainer may fail to notice this. If consumed, Sinistea will taste quite disgusting and will consume a bit of life force from the drinker, but luckily it does not require much. Wild Polteageist prefer to not be imbibed at all and will not actively try to get humans to drink them, but they will launch their tea to defend themselves if picked up. Again, this is not a life-threatening incident, but it is supremely unpleasant; chills, weakness, and dizziness are the most common symptoms of Polteageist tea ingestion.","Though Hatenna are not dangerous, it is unwise to pursue a fleeing individual unless one wishes to attract the anger of a Hattrem or Hatterene. The latter two evolutions should be avoided in the wild, as they can be quite hostile to intruders that are being too noisy or emotional. One can easily sense if one is encroaching on Hatterene territory by the uncanny silence one hears and the beginnings of a headache one begins to feel. Unless travelers are certain they can keep themselves and their Pokémon in check while passing through, they should stay away from these areas.","Though Hatenna are not dangerous, it is unwise to pursue a fleeing individual unless one wishes to attract the anger of a Hattrem or Hatterene. The latter two evolutions should be avoided in the wild, as they can be quite hostile to intruders that are being too noisy or emotional. One can easily sense if one is encroaching on Hatterene territory by the uncanny silence one hears and the beginnings of a headache one begins to feel. Unless travelers are certain they can keep themselves and their Pokémon in check while passing through, they should stay away from these areas.","Though Hatenna are not dangerous, it is unwise to pursue a fleeing individual unless one wishes to attract the anger of a Hattrem or Hatterene. The latter two evolutions should be avoided in the wild, as they can be quite hostile to intruders that are being too noisy or emotional. One can easily sense if one is encroaching on Hatterene territory by the uncanny silence one hears and the beginnings of a headache one begins to feel. Unless travelers are certain they can keep themselves and their Pokémon in check while passing through, they should stay away from these areas.","When it comes to these Pokémon; popular folklore is correct. Wearing silver accessories or brandishing silver weapons will keep them away. In a pinch, other metals can be substituted to a lesser effect. If without any metal whatsoever, one should stay away from Morgrem and Grimmsnarl territory. Defaced signposts are a good sign that these Pokémon may be near. It is best to keep one's wits about them and trust one's common sense in order to avoid falling into their traps.","When it comes to these Pokémon; popular folklore is correct. Wearing silver accessories or brandishing silver weapons will keep them away. In a pinch, other metals can be substituted to a lesser effect. If without any metal whatsoever, one should stay away from Morgrem and Grimmsnarl territory. Defaced signposts are a good sign that these Pokémon may be near. It is best to keep one's wits about them and trust one's common sense in order to avoid falling into their traps.","When it comes to these Pokémon; popular folklore is correct. Wearing silver accessories or brandishing silver weapons will keep them away. In a pinch, other metals can be substituted to a lesser effect. If without any metal whatsoever, one should stay away from Morgrem and Grimmsnarl territory. Defaced signposts are a good sign that these Pokémon may be near. It is best to keep one's wits about them and trust one's common sense in order to avoid falling into their traps.","Neither of these Pokémon pose any significant threat to humans. Zigzagoon will flee or play dead when scared, and are considered more of a pest than a danger in urban areas because they often knock over trash cans while rummaging through them. Linoone also prefer to flee from danger with their great speed. If cornered, though, they may attack by headbutting the aggressor before dashing away. Because they can only run straight, however, they are relatively easy to dodge.","Meowth and Persian both have sharp claws, though they are withdrawn if the Pokémon aren’t feeling threatened. Meowth will steal shiny objects like jewelry and watches from strangers they pass on the street; they will stash these items in hoards somewhere near where they sleep. Trainers should familiarize themselves with the locations of their Meowth’s hoards should a valuable item ever go missing. Persian are known to lash out at their trainers when they displease them.","Corsola are not dangerous Pokémon; tourists in tropical regions will often go snorkeling or scuba diving in Corsola reefs with no problems. They aren’t aggressive and prefer to use their hard bodies to shrug off attacks rather than fight back. However, cornered Corsola may launch off their branches using Spike Cannon if left with no other option. Entire colonies will work together to ward off intruders, so tormenting a seemingly-harmless individual in a reef is very ill-advised.","Farfetch’d are rather harmless Pokémon--unfortunately, this was a large reason why they were so easy to hunt and are so endangered today. Still, they are very skilled at defending themselves with their leeks, and seem uncannily perceptive when seeking out the weak spots of opponents. Though normally noble and honorable opponents, Farfetch’d will not hesitate to strike with “cheap shots” if their leeks are in danger.","Living alongside humans, neither Mime Jr. nor Mr. Mime pose much of a threat to people. Mime Jr. are known to target people they sense are benevolent when performing for food, a skill that makes them popular among beggars. Mr. Mime will become angry if their performances are interrupted, slapping offenders with their huge hands. Their invisible walls can also be nuisances in crowded streets, though most Mr. Mime know that blocking traffic won’t help them earn food.","Yamask are not an aggressive species, but their cries can be vey unsettling because of how much they resemble human voices. It is said that some archaeologists have been driven insane by the sound of many Yamask trying to “converse” with them all at once. Cofagrigus are usually stationary ambush predators; travelers should watch out for suspicious gold coffins. They can crawl surprisingly fast, however, even clinging to walls and ceilings to chase down those that bother them.","These Pokémon are not dangerous, as cream is their main method of defense. At worst, trainers may get a glob of (delicious) whipped cream thrown into their faces, which may obscure their vision for a bit. There have been reports of a few Alcremie in polluted urban areas, however, that have infused their cream with absolutely putrid industrial runoff. In the off chance that one runs into one of these Alcremie (as well as for common decency's sake), one should not needlessly antagonize these Pokémon in the wild. Alcremie cream is also quite calorie-dense and should not be consumed in excess.","These Pokémon are not dangerous, as cream is their main method of defense. At worst, trainers may get a glob of (delicious) whipped cream thrown into their faces, which may obscure their vision for a bit. There have been reports of a few Alcremie in polluted urban areas, however, that have infused their cream with absolutely putrid industrial runoff. In the off chance that one runs into one of these Alcremie (as well as for common decency's sake), one should not needlessly antagonize these Pokémon in the wild. Alcremie cream is also quite calorie-dense and should not be consumed in excess.","In the wild, trainers can notice Falinks can easily by their orderly marching. These creatures will not hunt anything larger than themselves, but they are militant in defending themselves and are quick to react to perceived danger. Approaching a Falinks may trigger its fighting instinct; if one sees it quickly shift formation with the brass in front, it is preparing to launch an offensive. Backing away from Falinks as they prepare to attack is usually sufficient to get them to relent.","","Snom are mostly helpless against attackers; their frosty silk can cause frostbite if it adheres to skin for an extended period of time, but trainers in icy areas are usually fully-clothed. Endangering a Snom can attract the ire of a Frosmoth, however, who are considerably more dangerous. Frosmoth can whip up blizzards with their icy wings to punish those that cause harm to their domains. They are otherwise aloof creatures, however, that will not bother travelers who are simply passing through.","Snom are mostly helpless against attackers; their frosty silk can cause frostbite if it adheres to skin for an extended period of time, but trainers in icy areas are usually fully-clothed. Endangering a Snom can attract the ire of a Frosmoth, however, who are considerably more dangerous. Frosmoth can whip up blizzards with their icy wings to punish those that cause harm to their domains. They are otherwise aloof creatures, however, that will not bother travelers who are simply passing through.","Travelers that leave Stonjourner alone should not face any problems with these creatures, as they remain entirely motionless for much of the day. Bothering a sun-gazing Stonjourner is a poor idea, however, as these Pokémon can deliver powerful kicks. A recent trend involving climbing upon wild Stonjourner for photo opportunities is also very ill-advised; a number of trainers have already been hospitalized for this foolhardy endeavor.","Eiscue are not very dangerous to humans. If confronted, they prefer to flee rather than fight and risk shattering their ice blocks. If cornered, they may attempt to defend themselves with Ice-type attacks, but simply presenting an opening to run is usually enough to get them to flee. Touching an Eiscue's hair will likely be an unpleasant experience for both parties; Eiscue hairs are very sensitive and also radiate a biting cold that can cause frostbite if held anything more than a brief few seconds.","Indeedee are not dangerous Pokémon; they would prefer to help humans in exchange for thankfulness rather than antagonize them unnecessarily. However, they can attack with psychic energy if threatened. Treating an urban Indeedee badly is also a supremely poor idea. These Pokémon can quickly relay messages by touching horns, and travelers that are identified as poor customers by one Indeedee can quickly find themselves being denied services all over the city.","Full Belly Mode Morpeko pose almost no threat to humans; they are friendly and prefer to flee from rather than fight danger. These Pokémon never remain in this mode for long, however. Hangry Mode Morpeko are terrors at a level that can be difficult to describe if not experienced. They will use their surprising speed to launch themselves at anything nearby, biting viciously with their sharp teeth at vulnerable areas. They can be quite destructive in short amounts of time. To calm them down, trainers should not offer food to such Morpeko from up close, but instead toss it from afar (preferably from behind the cover of a tree or large boulder).","In the wild, Cufant and Copperajah are normally docile creatures that are aloof to passing travelers. They are quite protective of their herds and their young, however, and will put up a fierce fight if they sense a threat to either. Copperajah are formidable foes that should not be trifled with; if one angers a Copperajah, it is best to back away slowly to prevent it and its herd from attacking. \"Lonely\" Cufant are in fact rarely far from their mothers, and should be given a wide berth to account for this.","In the wild, Cufant and Copperajah are normally docile creatures that are aloof to passing travelers. They are quite protective of their herds and their young, however, and will put up a fierce fight if they sense a threat to either. Copperajah are formidable foes that should not be trifled with; if one angers a Copperajah, it is best to back away slowly to prevent it and its herd from attacking. \"Lonely\" Cufant are in fact rarely far from their mothers, and should be given a wide berth to account for this.","Trainers will never encounter these Pokémon in the wild. In captivity, they will be dedicating the majority of their efforts into just staying alive and are unlikely to pay visitors much attention. Dracozolt and Arctozolt can generate electricity, while Dracovish and Arctovish have powerful jaws; Dracozolt and Dracovish can deliver strong kicks, while Arctozolt and Arctovish can freeze foes solid. Again, however, it is incredibly unlikely that trainers will be in a situation where they must defend themselves against these creatures.","Trainers will never encounter these Pokémon in the wild. In captivity, they will be dedicating the majority of their efforts into just staying alive and are unlikely to pay visitors much attention. Dracozolt and Arctozolt can generate electricity, while Dracovish and Arctovish have powerful jaws; Dracozolt and Dracovish can deliver strong kicks, while Arctozolt and Arctovish can freeze foes solid. Again, however, it is incredibly unlikely that trainers will be in a situation where they must defend themselves against these creatures.","Trainers will never encounter these Pokémon in the wild. In captivity, they will be dedicating the majority of their efforts into just staying alive and are unlikely to pay visitors much attention. Dracozolt and Arctozolt can generate electricity, while Dracovish and Arctovish have powerful jaws; Dracozolt and Dracovish can deliver strong kicks, while Arctozolt and Arctovish can freeze foes solid. Again, however, it is incredibly unlikely that trainers will be in a situation where they must defend themselves against these creatures.","Trainers will never encounter these Pokémon in the wild. In captivity, they will be dedicating the majority of their efforts into just staying alive and are unlikely to pay visitors much attention. Dracozolt and Arctozolt can generate electricity, while Dracovish and Arctovish have powerful jaws; Dracozolt and Dracovish can deliver strong kicks, while Arctozolt and Arctovish can freeze foes solid. Again, however, it is incredibly unlikely that trainers will be in a situation where they must defend themselves against these creatures.","Duraludon are territorial creatures that may see humans as a threat if they intrude on their domains. They are deceptively fast Pokémon that can easily catch up to fleeing travelers. Water is one's best defense against an angry Duraludon; they would rather back down from a fight rather than risk developing rust. As any competent traveler should be carrying drinking water at the very least, quick-thinking trainers should be able to ward off approaching Duraludon fairly efficiently.","These Pokémon are rarely sighted and even more rarely become involved with humans. Both Drakloak and Dragapult can detect and evade travelers long before they themselves are noticed. The only situation in which trainers may run into trouble with these Pokémon is in the event that they frighten a lone Dreepy. This will trigger the strong caretaking instincts of nearby Drakloak and Dragapult; in this case, trainers should take cover behind a sturdy rock to avoid being blasted by a Dreepy projectile and wait for the attacking Pokémon to glide away.","These Pokémon are rarely sighted and even more rarely become involved with humans. Both Drakloak and Dragapult can detect and evade travelers long before they themselves are noticed. The only situation in which trainers may run into trouble with these Pokémon is in the event that they frighten a lone Dreepy. This will trigger the strong caretaking instincts of nearby Drakloak and Dragapult; in this case, trainers should take cover behind a sturdy rock to avoid being blasted by a Dreepy projectile and wait for the attacking Pokémon to glide away.","These Pokémon are rarely sighted and even more rarely become involved with humans. Both Drakloak and Dragapult can detect and evade travelers long before they themselves are noticed. The only situation in which trainers may run into trouble with these Pokémon is in the event that they frighten a lone Dreepy. This will trigger the strong caretaking instincts of nearby Drakloak and Dragapult; in this case, trainers should take cover behind a sturdy rock to avoid being blasted by a Dreepy projectile and wait for the attacking Pokémon to glide away.","","","",