"The Bulbasaur line, like many Grass-types, can subsist entirely via photosynthesis. They also enjoy eating plant material such as leaves and Berries (though they dislike spicy Berries). They store the energy obtained from these secondary food sources as fat in the event of cloudy weather.","The Bulbasaur line, like many Grass-types, can subsist entirely via photosynthesis. They also enjoy eating plant material such as leaves and Berries (though they dislike spicy Berries). They store the energy obtained from these secondary food sources as fat in the event of cloudy weather.","The Bulbasaur line, like many Grass-types, can subsist entirely via photosynthesis. They also enjoy eating plant material such as leaves and Berries (though they dislike spicy Berries). They store the energy obtained from these secondary food sources as fat in the event of cloudy weather.","All members of the Charmander line are technically omnivorous. However, each successive stage holds a more distinct preference for meat, with Charizard being totally carnivorous if allowed to. Oddly, despite being unable to approach water, Charizard seem to particularly enjoy fish.","All members of the Charmander line are technically omnivorous. However, each successive stage holds a more distinct preference for meat, with Charizard being totally carnivorous if allowed to. Oddly, despite being unable to approach water, Charizard seem to particularly enjoy fish.","All members of the Charmander line are technically omnivorous. However, each successive stage holds a more distinct preference for meat, with Charizard being totally carnivorous if allowed to. Oddly, despite being unable to approach water, Charizard seem to particularly enjoy fish.","Squirtle and their evolutions are, contrary to popular belief, primarily piscivores. Though the media often depict the Pokémon eating reeds or perhaps insects, any trainer of a Blastoise will tell you that they consume fish--and a lot of it, at that.","Squirtle and their evolutions are, contrary to popular belief, primarily piscivores. Though the media often depict the Pokémon eating reeds or perhaps insects, any trainer of a Blastoise will tell you that they consume fish--and a lot of it, at that.","Squirtle and their evolutions are, contrary to popular belief, primarily piscivores. Though the media often depict the Pokémon eating reeds or perhaps insects, any trainer of a Blastoise will tell you that they consume fish--and a lot of it, at that.","Caterpie can consume their own weight in plant material in a day; they can devour a hundred leaves in one sitting. In contrast, Metapod don’t eat at all, relying on energy they stored as Caterpie. Butterfree subsist on the nectar of flowers as well as honey.","Caterpie can consume their own weight in plant material in a day; they can devour a hundred leaves in one sitting. In contrast, Metapod don’t eat at all, relying on energy they stored as Caterpie. Butterfree subsist on the nectar of flowers as well as honey.","Caterpie can consume their own weight in plant material in a day; they can devour a hundred leaves in one sitting. In contrast, Metapod don’t eat at all, relying on energy they stored as Caterpie. Butterfree subsist on the nectar of flowers as well as honey.","Weedle consume their body weight in leaves daily, while Kakuna eats nothing at all. Beedrill seem to be exclusively carnivores, hunting Pokémon like Paras, Rattata, and Pidgey with their venomous stingers.","Weedle consume their body weight in leaves daily, while Kakuna eats nothing at all. Beedrill seem to be exclusively carnivores, hunting Pokémon like Paras, Rattata, and Pidgey with their venomous stingers.","Weedle consume their body weight in leaves daily, while Kakuna eats nothing at all. Beedrill seem to be exclusively carnivores, hunting Pokémon like Paras, Rattata, and Pidgey with their venomous stingers.","Pidgey seek out insects in tall grass, though they will also eat seeds. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot, on the other hand, are aerial hunters. Both primarily go after small prey like Rattata, Caterpie, and Magikarp. They may even go after the horned Goldeen, though they are not always successful.","Pidgey seek out insects in tall grass, though they will also eat seeds. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot, on the other hand, are aerial hunters. Both primarily go after small prey like Rattata, Caterpie, and Magikarp. They may even go after the horned Goldeen, though they are not always successful.","Pidgey seek out insects in tall grass, though they will also eat seeds. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot, on the other hand, are aerial hunters. Both primarily go after small prey like Rattata, Caterpie, and Magikarp. They may even go after the horned Goldeen, though they are not always successful.","Rattata and Raticate are omnivores that will consume practically anything they will come across. If they find their way into houses, they will rummage through garbage or even kitchen pantries in search of food.","Rattata and Raticate are omnivores that will consume practically anything they will come across. If they find their way into houses, they will rummage through garbage or even kitchen pantries in search of food.","Spearow are insectivores, flushing out prey by flapping their wings. Fearow, on the other hand, are carnivores, using their narrow beaks to snatch fish from beneath the water’s surface or stab fleeing prey. They are known to snap up food from unwary travelers in their territory.","Spearow are insectivores, flushing out prey by flapping their wings. Fearow, on the other hand, are carnivores, using their narrow beaks to snatch fish from beneath the water’s surface or stab fleeing prey. They are known to snap up food from unwary travelers in their territory.","Ekans prey on the eggs of Pidgey and Spearow, which they swallow whole by unhinging their jaws. Arbok also swallow their prey without chewing, but can go after larger quarry like Raticate and Nidoran.","Ekans prey on the eggs of Pidgey and Spearow, which they swallow whole by unhinging their jaws. Arbok also swallow their prey without chewing, but can go after larger quarry like Raticate and Nidoran.","The Pichu line consumes fruits and Berries, which they shock with their electricity to roast and soften. They are adventurous eaters, however; Pichu in urban areas have been known to rummage through restaurant dumpsters in search of gourmet food.","The Pichu line consumes fruits and Berries, which they shock with their electricity to roast and soften. They are adventurous eaters, however; Pichu in urban areas have been known to rummage through restaurant dumpsters in search of gourmet food.","Both Sandshrew and Sandslash are insectivores. They can survive on incredibly little water, and in some cases, can obtain the bulk of the amount that they do need from their food.","Both Sandshrew and Sandslash are insectivores. They can survive on incredibly little water, and in some cases, can obtain the bulk of the amount that they do need from their food.","Though the Nidoran family is known for its aggression, particularly from the males, all of its members are in fact exclusively herbivores. Nidorino typically bring back nuts, plants, and Berries for the whole family, while Nidorina feed the offspring and will premasticate food for infants.","Though the Nidoran family is known for its aggression, particularly from the males, all of its members are in fact exclusively herbivores. Nidorino typically bring back nuts, plants, and Berries for the whole family, while Nidorina feed the offspring and will premasticate food for infants.","Though the Nidoran family is known for its aggression, particularly from the males, all of its members are in fact exclusively herbivores. Nidorino typically bring back nuts, plants, and Berries for the whole family, while Nidorina feed the offspring and will premasticate food for infants.","Though the Nidoran family is known for its aggression, particularly from the males, all of its members are in fact exclusively herbivores. Nidorino typically bring back nuts, plants, and Berries for the whole family, while Nidorina feed the offspring and will premasticate food for infants.","Though the Nidoran family is known for its aggression, particularly from the males, all of its members are in fact exclusively herbivores. Nidorino typically bring back nuts, plants, and Berries for the whole family, while Nidorina feed the offspring and will premasticate food for infants.","Though the Nidoran family is known for its aggression, particularly from the males, all of its members are in fact exclusively herbivores. Nidorino typically bring back nuts, plants, and Berries for the whole family, while Nidorina feed the offspring and will premasticate food for infants.","Researchers are unclear as to what wild members of the Cleffa line eat, though it is known that trained individuals will gladly consume Berries. Some scientists have hypothesized that Clefairy and Clefable store moonlight as energy in their “wings.” Cleffa are known to drink morning dew.","Researchers are unclear as to what wild members of the Cleffa line eat, though it is known that trained individuals will gladly consume Berries. Some scientists have hypothesized that Clefairy and Clefable store moonlight as energy in their “wings.” Cleffa are known to drink morning dew.","Both Vulpix and Ninetales are omnivorous. In addition to nuts and Berries, Vulpix go after small prey, like Rattata and Pidgey. Ninetales dislike “unclean” food, and will turn up their noses to carrion and other sources of food that they consider “dirty.”","Both Vulpix and Ninetales are omnivorous. In addition to nuts and Berries, Vulpix go after small prey, like Rattata and Pidgey. Ninetales dislike “unclean” food, and will turn up their noses to carrion and other sources of food that they consider “dirty.”","Members of the Igglybuff line are herbivores that eat fruits and Berries. They dislike dry and tannic food, but are especially partial to apples as well as to Leppa Berries.","Members of the Igglybuff line are herbivores that eat fruits and Berries. They dislike dry and tannic food, but are especially partial to apples as well as to Leppa Berries.","Both Zubat and Crobat feed on insects, fruits and Berries. Golbat are hematophagous, and are known to suck blood from both other Pokémon and from people. Crobat also suck blood from their victims, though they seem to prefer smaller prey.","Both Zubat and Crobat feed on insects, fruits and Berries. Golbat are hematophagous, and are known to suck blood from both other Pokémon and from people. Crobat also suck blood from their victims, though they seem to prefer smaller prey.","The diet of Oddish line varies from stage to stage. Oddish absorb nutrients from the soil and photosynthesize using moonlight while rooted in the ground, while Bellossom can subsist entirely via photosynthesis. Gloom are insectivores while Vileplume may go after larger prey, like Raticate and even Natu.","The diet of Oddish line varies from stage to stage. Oddish absorb nutrients from the soil and photosynthesize using moonlight while rooted in the ground, while Bellossom can subsist entirely via photosynthesis. Gloom are insectivores while Vileplume may go after larger prey, like Raticate and even Natu.","The diet of Oddish line varies from stage to stage. Oddish absorb nutrients from the soil and photosynthesize using moonlight while rooted in the ground, while Bellossom can subsist entirely via photosynthesis. Gloom are insectivores while Vileplume may go after larger prey, like Raticate and even Natu.","Paras and Parasect suck nutrients out of the roots of trees. They seem to only feed on plants with woody bark, completely ignoring herbaceous plants while searching for food. The mushrooms on their backs siphon nutrients from whatever their hosts consume.","Paras and Parasect suck nutrients out of the roots of trees. They seem to only feed on plants with woody bark, completely ignoring herbaceous plants while searching for food. The mushrooms on their backs siphon nutrients from whatever their hosts consume.","Both Venonat and Venomoth are insectivores. They, as well as their prey, are nocturnal. Both Pokémon can often be seen congregating around light sources feasting on the insects attracted there as well.","Both Venonat and Venomoth are insectivores. They, as well as their prey, are nocturnal. Both Pokémon can often be seen congregating around light sources feasting on the insects attracted there as well.","These Pokémon eat insects (particularly earthworms) and plant roots as they burrow through the soil. They seem to take in mouthfuls of soil and pass it through their bodies, sifting out food while leaving the remaining dirt untouched, but aerated.","These Pokémon eat insects (particularly earthworms) and plant roots as they burrow through the soil. They seem to take in mouthfuls of soil and pass it through their bodies, sifting out food while leaving the remaining dirt untouched, but aerated.","Both Meowth and Persian are hunters. They will go after small rodents like Rattata and Pichu, often toying with their prey before killing them. They are also known to catch newly-hatched Pidgey from their nests.","Both Meowth and Persian are hunters. They will go after small rodents like Rattata and Pichu, often toying with their prey before killing them. They are also known to catch newly-hatched Pidgey from their nests.","Psyduck feed primarily on weeds that grow on rocks and river beds. Though Golduck will also graze like this from time to time, they will also hunt aquatic prey. They will catch fish and shellfish like Magikarp, Krabby, and Shellder with their superb swimming skills.","Psyduck feed primarily on weeds that grow on rocks and river beds. Though Golduck will also graze like this from time to time, they will also hunt aquatic prey. They will catch fish and shellfish like Magikarp, Krabby, and Shellder with their superb swimming skills.","Both Mankey and Primeape are herbivores, despite their brutality. They forage for bananas, berries (particularly Chesto Berries), and chestnuts. Mankey have difficulty opening chestnuts, however, and will quickly become angry while trying to open them.","Both Mankey and Primeape are herbivores, despite their brutality. They forage for bananas, berries (particularly Chesto Berries), and chestnuts. Mankey have difficulty opening chestnuts, however, and will quickly become angry while trying to open them.","Growlithe and Arcanine are carnivores. They are courageous hunters; while they sometimes go after prey like Jigglypuff, they will also try to take down more dangerous or larger Pokémon like Ekans, Doduo, or even Tauros.","Growlithe and Arcanine are carnivores. They are courageous hunters; while they sometimes go after prey like Jigglypuff, they will also try to take down more dangerous or larger Pokémon like Ekans, Doduo, or even Tauros.","Poliwag feed on the roots of lily pads and on algae. Poliwhirl and Poliwrath also consume plant material from time to time, but also catch insects and small fish as well. Politoed are exclusively insectivores.","Poliwag feed on the roots of lily pads and on algae. Poliwhirl and Poliwrath also consume plant material from time to time, but also catch insects and small fish as well. Politoed are exclusively insectivores.","Poliwag feed on the roots of lily pads and on algae. Poliwhirl and Poliwrath also consume plant material from time to time, but also catch insects and small fish as well. Politoed are exclusively insectivores.","The Abra line are omnivores. Since Abra sleep so much, they expend very little energy and don’t eat much. They will teleport into treetops when awaken to easily pick Berries. Their evolutions also eat far less than their sizes would suggest, though not as little as Abra.","The Abra line are omnivores. Since Abra sleep so much, they expend very little energy and don’t eat much. They will teleport into treetops when awaken to easily pick Berries. Their evolutions also eat far less than their sizes would suggest, though not as little as Abra.","The Abra line are omnivores. Since Abra sleep so much, they expend very little energy and don’t eat much. They will teleport into treetops when awaken to easily pick Berries. Their evolutions also eat far less than their sizes would suggest, though not as little as Abra.","The Machop line is omnivorous. They eat much like bodybuilders, and are meticulous in what they will and won’t consume on a daily basis. They strive to maintain balanced diets with a heavy emphasis on proteins. They dislike processed food and will oftentimes refuse to eat it.","The Machop line is omnivorous. They eat much like bodybuilders, and are meticulous in what they will and won’t consume on a daily basis. They strive to maintain balanced diets with a heavy emphasis on proteins. They dislike processed food and will oftentimes refuse to eat it.","The Machop line is omnivorous. They eat much like bodybuilders, and are meticulous in what they will and won’t consume on a daily basis. They strive to maintain balanced diets with a heavy emphasis on proteins. They dislike processed food and will oftentimes refuse to eat it.","All members of the Bellsprout line eat insects, with Bellsprout being exclusively insectivores. Weepinbell will go after small Pokémon like Natu and Psyduck, while Victreebel will swallow practically anything that nears--they are rumored to have eaten a number of lost jungle travelers.","All members of the Bellsprout line eat insects, with Bellsprout being exclusively insectivores. Weepinbell will go after small Pokémon like Natu and Psyduck, while Victreebel will swallow practically anything that nears--they are rumored to have eaten a number of lost jungle travelers.","All members of the Bellsprout line eat insects, with Bellsprout being exclusively insectivores. Weepinbell will go after small Pokémon like Natu and Psyduck, while Victreebel will swallow practically anything that nears--they are rumored to have eaten a number of lost jungle travelers.","Tentacool and Tentacruel hunt fish like Finneon, Remoraid, and Magikarp. They will attempt to consume anything that becomes entangled in their tentacles, however, provided that their catches are small enough. Pokémon like Seel and Mantyke sometimes fall prey to these Pokémon.","Tentacool and Tentacruel hunt fish like Finneon, Remoraid, and Magikarp. They will attempt to consume anything that becomes entangled in their tentacles, however, provided that their catches are small enough. Pokémon like Seel and Mantyke sometimes fall prey to these Pokémon.","The Geodude family eats rocks, breaking them down into simpler minerals and elements to obtain energy and rebuild parts of their own bodies.","The Geodude family eats rocks, breaking them down into simpler minerals and elements to obtain energy and rebuild parts of their own bodies.","The Geodude family eats rocks, breaking them down into simpler minerals and elements to obtain energy and rebuild parts of their own bodies.","The Ponyta line graze on tall grass in vast, open plains. They are also known to enjoy fruits and vegetables like apples and carrots as well as sugar cubes. Tamato Berries are poisonous to these Pokémon, so trainers should keep the Berries away from their reach.","The Ponyta line graze on tall grass in vast, open plains. They are also known to enjoy fruits and vegetables like apples and carrots as well as sugar cubes. Tamato Berries are poisonous to these Pokémon, so trainers should keep the Berries away from their reach.","The Slowpoke family are fishers, eating whatever seafood they manage to catch. Because of their slow reaction times, they are rarely successful in capturing fish or shellfish. However, because of their sluggishness, they also don’t need much energy to survive and can last weeks on one catch.","The Slowpoke family are fishers, eating whatever seafood they manage to catch. Because of their slow reaction times, they are rarely successful in capturing fish or shellfish. However, because of their sluggishness, they also don’t need much energy to survive and can last weeks on one catch.","Magnemite and their evolutions feed on electrical energy, which they need to generate the electromagnetic forces they use to levitate. Without this energy, they would be unable to float and fall to the ground. They can generate this energy themselves, though, by spinning their magnets.","Magnemite and their evolutions feed on electrical energy, which they need to generate the electromagnetic forces they use to levitate. Without this energy, they would be unable to float and fall to the ground. They can generate this energy themselves, though, by spinning their magnets.","Farfetch’d are omnivores. Though they primarily feed on algae, weeds, and seeds, they also will catch small insects and other invertebrates, such as worms. In lean times, they will even eat their own stalks, though they will immediately search for new ones afterwards.","The Doduo line mainly feed on shrubs, seeds, and fruit. However, they will also eat a wide range of small creatures that they may come upon during their travels, ranging from tiny insects to Pokémon like the occasional Poliwag that they may find.","The Doduo line mainly feed on shrubs, seeds, and fruit. However, they will also eat a wide range of small creatures that they may come upon during their travels, ranging from tiny insects to Pokémon like the occasional Poliwag that they may find.","The Seel family seems to feed primarily on seaweed, sea grass, algae, and whatever other scarce aquatic plants they can find in polar seas. They may catch fish and crustaceans when food is particularly difficult to find. ","The Seel family seems to feed primarily on seaweed, sea grass, algae, and whatever other scarce aquatic plants they can find in polar seas. They may catch fish and crustaceans when food is particularly difficult to find. ","Grimer don’t eat as much as they assimilate toxic sludge into their bodies. As they travel, they incorporate liquid refuse into their bodies, digesting what they can for energy and letting the rest fester and eventually be deposited in the trails they leave behind.","Grimer don’t eat as much as they assimilate toxic sludge into their bodies. As they travel, they incorporate liquid refuse into their bodies, digesting what they can for energy and letting the rest fester and eventually be deposited in the trails they leave behind.","The Shellder line is primarily piscivorous, clamping down on or lampooning prey like Magikarp, Horsea, and Finneon. They are known to go after some more dangerous Pokémon, like Tentacool, Frillish, and even Skrelp. Of course, both evolutions are particularly fond of Slowpoke tails.","The Shellder line is primarily piscivorous, clamping down on or lampooning prey like Magikarp, Horsea, and Finneon. They are known to go after some more dangerous Pokémon, like Tentacool, Frillish, and even Skrelp. Of course, both evolutions are particularly fond of Slowpoke tails.","The Gastly family normally feed on the life force of living beings. However, they are also able to feed on negative emotions like fear and paranoia, and have been known to “farm” towns and cities for these feelings by playing pranks on inhabitants.","The Gastly family normally feed on the life force of living beings. However, they are also able to feed on negative emotions like fear and paranoia, and have been known to “farm” towns and cities for these feelings by playing pranks on inhabitants.","The Gastly family normally feed on the life force of living beings. However, they are also able to feed on negative emotions like fear and paranoia, and have been known to “farm” towns and cities for these feelings by playing pranks on inhabitants.","Both Onix and Steelix are lithophagous, eating rocks as they burrow beneath the earth’s surface. Onix that consume lots of metal ore are more likely to evolve into Steelix; Steelix actively seek out iron ore in particular to strengthen their own bodies. ","Both Drowzee and Hypno feed on dreams, leaving the actual sleeping beings completely unharmed, other than leaving them unable to remember what they dreamt of. They prefer pleasant dreams to nightmares.","Both Drowzee and Hypno feed on dreams, leaving the actual sleeping beings completely unharmed, other than leaving them unable to remember what they dreamt of. They prefer pleasant dreams to nightmares.","Krabby and Kingler eat detritus that wash up on the shore, brought by the crashing waves. They are also scavengers, picking at carcasses that for some reason or another end up on the beaches they dwell on.","Krabby and Kingler eat detritus that wash up on the shore, brought by the crashing waves. They are also scavengers, picking at carcasses that for some reason or another end up on the beaches they dwell on.","Both Voltorb and Electrode feed on electricity, either drawing it from generators or straight from the atmosphere. They can also generate small amounts of static electricity by rolling.","Both Voltorb and Electrode feed on electricity, either drawing it from generators or straight from the atmosphere. They can also generate small amounts of static electricity by rolling.","Exeggcute are filled to the brim with nutrients, to the point that it feasible for them to live out their entire natural lives without eating. They will feed on seeds and decaying matter on the forest floor, however. Exeggutor photosynthesize to produce their own energy.","Exeggcute are filled to the brim with nutrients, to the point that it feasible for them to live out their entire natural lives without eating. They will feed on seeds and decaying matter on the forest floor, however. Exeggutor photosynthesize to produce their own energy.","Though trained Cubone are omnivorous, wild ones normally only eat for fruits and Berries. Marowak are stone-cold hunters (though they also forage), taking down Pokémon much larger than themselves like Tauros, Donphan, and even occasionally Steelix.","Though trained Cubone are omnivorous, wild ones normally only eat for fruits and Berries. Marowak are stone-cold hunters (though they also forage), taking down Pokémon much larger than themselves like Tauros, Donphan, and even occasionally Steelix.","All Pokémon in the Tyrogue family eat much like humans do. Hitmonlee eat large amounts of food each day, while Tyrogue and Hitmonchan train their endurance by fasting. It is a well known joke that Hitmontop prefer to maintain “balanced” diets.","All Pokémon in the Tyrogue family eat much like humans do. Hitmonlee eat large amounts of food each day, while Tyrogue and Hitmonchan train their endurance by fasting. It is a well known joke that Hitmontop prefer to maintain “balanced” diets.","Neither Lickitung nor Lickilicky are picky eaters at all. They will lick practically any object they find in front of them, and attempt to eat said objects if they taste even remotely edible (and sometimes, even if they don’t).","The Koffing line are simple creatures with few complex organs. The bulk of their energy, which they obtain from organic particulate matter in the air they inhale, goes towards contracting their bodies to regulate their altitudes and expel gas.","The Koffing line are simple creatures with few complex organs. The bulk of their energy, which they obtain from organic particulate matter in the air they inhale, goes towards contracting their bodies to regulate their altitudes and expel gas.","To the surprise of many, all Pokémon are this family are herbivores. Rhyhorn primarily graze on grass while their evolutions will eat leaves from trees as well. Badland-dwelling individuals are known to feed on cacti, rubbing the sharp spines off against their thick armor.","To the surprise of many, all Pokémon are this family are herbivores. Rhyhorn primarily graze on grass while their evolutions will eat leaves from trees as well. Badland-dwelling individuals are known to feed on cacti, rubbing the sharp spines off against their thick armor.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, feeding on plant shoots and Berries. The eggs of Chansey and Blissey act as emergency food supplies for both themselves as well as travelers that they come across. They can survive for weeks when food is scarce solely on the eggs they carry with them.","Both of these Pokémon are primarily carnivorous. Though they can gain small amounts of energy from photosynthesis, they are far more efficient at snagging unwary prey with their vines. Tangela will go after small mammals while Tangrowth are known to catch prey larger than humans.","Kangaskhan feed on grasses, shrubs, and the leaves of trees. They are efficient eaters, gaining much more energy from their food than other Pokémon with similar diets. This allows them to attain larger sizes than other bipedal herbivores.","Horsea feed on algae as well as whatever small crustaceans and plankton they can siphon through their snouts. Seadra and Kingdra are more aggressive hunters. Seadra will paralyze prey by stabbing them with their poisonous spines, while both will disorient and trap victims with whirlpools.","Horsea feed on algae as well as whatever small crustaceans and plankton they can siphon through their snouts. Seadra and Kingdra are more aggressive hunters. Seadra will paralyze prey by stabbing them with their poisonous spines, while both will disorient and trap victims with whirlpools.","Both Goldeen and Seaking feed primarily on algae, but will scavenge virtually anything they can find on the riverbed. This can range from creatures like crustaceans to discarded trash and waste products of other Pokémon.","Both Goldeen and Seaking feed primarily on algae, but will scavenge virtually anything they can find on the riverbed. This can range from creatures like crustaceans to discarded trash and waste products of other Pokémon.","These Pokémon are ravenous eaters, though they may not seem like it superficially. They will use their numerous limbs to tear open the shells of invertebrate Pokémon like Shellder and Krabby. They are also known to spin rapidly and throw themselves at prey to crack their armor.","These Pokémon are ravenous eaters, though they may not seem like it superficially. They will use their numerous limbs to tear open the shells of invertebrate Pokémon like Shellder and Krabby. They are also known to spin rapidly and throw themselves at prey to crack their armor.","Both Pokémon eat like people do. In the wild, they will forage for nuts and Berries, but are also known to set invisible traps to catch unwary prey (and sometimes accidentally small children as well). Like children, Mime Jr. particularly enjoy sweets and will dig through trash to find candy.","Both Scyther and Scizor are strictly carnivorous hunters. They usually pursue small- to medium-sized mammals as their prey. Scyther, however, are known to pursue larger victims when in big packs. Both Pokémon will resort to catching small birds and rodents when food is scarce.","These Pokémon were long believed to be herbivorous, subsisting on the scant lichens and Berries that grew in their harsh wintry environments. However, some research has indicated that Jynx (though not Smoochum), may also hunt small mammals by captivating them with their dancing.","All Pokémon on this line are capable of feeding solely on electricity from sources like generators or natural lightning. However, they can also supplement their diets with plant material, particularly Berries.","These Pokémon appear to be able to survive consuming nothing but lava; unlike Pokémon like Slugma and Macargo, who are virtually made of the substance, it is unknown how they obtain the nutrients necessary to survive from this. They have also been recorded to feed on various Berries.","Pinsir are primarily hunters, chasing after prey and grasping them between their strong antlers to tear them in half. However, they also enjoy tree sap and will viciously defend the trees they feed from against competing Pinsir and Heracross.","Tauros are grazers, feeding on grasses and other low-growing plants. They are ruminants, meaning that their stomachs have four compartments, each of which plays a different role in aiding their digestion of plant material.","Magikarp eat whatever they can find, as they are unable to hunt other Pokémon or even spend much time foraging out in the open. Luckily, they require little food or energy to survive. Gyarados, on the other hand, are vicious hunters that will eat anything they come across.","Magikarp eat whatever they can find, as they are unable to hunt other Pokémon or even spend much time foraging out in the open. Luckily, they require little food or energy to survive. Gyarados, on the other hand, are vicious hunters that will eat anything they come across.","Lapras are omnivorous Pokémon. They will catch small fish and aquatic invertebrates while swimming, but also feed on algae and even plants that grow near the shore.","Ditto eat practically anything, and will morph into whatever shapes are suitable for consuming what they are about to consume. They will eat Berries and other small treats directly in their natural forms, however.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","None of the members of the Porgyon family need to eat to survive, as they are all made entirely of data. However, they are programmed with the ability to convert physical sustenance such as Berries into energy and absorb it.","Omanyte are filter-feeders, floating to the surface of the water when feeding. Omastar are hunters, harpooning fish swimming above with their spikes or ensnaring shellfish and crustaceans with their tentacles before cracking their shells open with their powerful beaks.","Omanyte are filter-feeders, floating to the surface of the water when feeding. Omastar are hunters, harpooning fish swimming above with their spikes or ensnaring shellfish and crustaceans with their tentacles before cracking their shells open with their powerful beaks.","Kabuto are parasites, draining body fluids from other Pokémon by latching on with their limbs. Kabutops, on the other hand, are hunters, pursuing prey both in the water and on land before slicing them with their sharp scythes and sucking them dry.","Kabuto are parasites, draining body fluids from other Pokémon by latching on with their limbs. Kabutops, on the other hand, are hunters, pursuing prey both in the water and on land before slicing them with their sharp scythes and sucking them dry.","Aerodactyl are omnivorous. They prefer to hunt live prey like Cranidos and Shieldon, aiming directly for the necks of their victims. They also enjoy eating fruits and Berries, particularly Pamtre Berries and Aspear Berries.","Both of these Pokémon will attempt to eat practically anything they can get their hands on. Munchlax will rummage through garbage cans and kitchen pantries in search of food, while Snorlax will eat whatever is around them. Both seem to be tolerant of toxic plants and rotten food.","","","","All members of the Dratini line are piscivores, consuming exclusively fish. Each successive evolution pursues prey of increasing size, with Dratini often preying on fish fry and Dragonite consuming some of the largest fish in the sea.","All members of the Dratini line are piscivores, consuming exclusively fish. Each successive evolution pursues prey of increasing size, with Dratini often preying on fish fry and Dragonite consuming some of the largest fish in the sea.","All members of the Dratini line are piscivores, consuming exclusively fish. Each successive evolution pursues prey of increasing size, with Dratini often preying on fish fry and Dragonite consuming some of the largest fish in the sea.","","","The entire Chikorita line is exclusively herbivorous. Chikorita will eat young plant shoots, leaves, and Berries, while Bayleef are capable of digesting sturdier stalks and even twigs. Meganium use their long necks to reach the leaves of short trees and tall shrubs.","The entire Chikorita line is exclusively herbivorous. Chikorita will eat young plant shoots, leaves, and Berries, while Bayleef are capable of digesting sturdier stalks and even twigs. Meganium use their long necks to reach the leaves of short trees and tall shrubs.","The entire Chikorita line is exclusively herbivorous. Chikorita will eat young plant shoots, leaves, and Berries, while Bayleef are capable of digesting sturdier stalks and even twigs. Meganium use their long necks to reach the leaves of short trees and tall shrubs.","Typhlosion are far from picky eaters, and will consume plant roots, insects, carrion, and live prey of all sizes, depending on what it can find. Quilava tend to chase after smaller rodents and bugs, while Cyndaquil will dig for insects and roots as well as forage for Berries.","Typhlosion are far from picky eaters, and will consume plant roots, insects, carrion, and live prey of all sizes, depending on what it can find. Quilava tend to chase after smaller rodents and bugs, while Cyndaquil will dig for insects and roots as well as forage for Berries.","Typhlosion are far from picky eaters, and will consume plant roots, insects, carrion, and live prey of all sizes, depending on what it can find. Quilava tend to chase after smaller rodents and bugs, while Cyndaquil will dig for insects and roots as well as forage for Berries.","The Totodile line are carnivorous. All members of the family feed primarily on fish. Croconaw and especially Feraligatr are known to attack unwary birds and mammals that stray too close to the water, with Feraligatr even sometimes chasing down their prey on land.","The Totodile line are carnivorous. All members of the family feed primarily on fish. Croconaw and especially Feraligatr are known to attack unwary birds and mammals that stray too close to the water, with Feraligatr even sometimes chasing down their prey on land.","The Totodile line are carnivorous. All members of the family feed primarily on fish. Croconaw and especially Feraligatr are known to attack unwary birds and mammals that stray too close to the water, with Feraligatr even sometimes chasing down their prey on land.","Both Sentret and Furret are obligate carnivores, primarily preying on small rodents like Rattata. Ferret will feed their young until they are old enough to hunt for themselves and join their own social groups.","Both Sentret and Furret are obligate carnivores, primarily preying on small rodents like Rattata. Ferret will feed their young until they are old enough to hunt for themselves and join their own social groups.","As birds of prey, both Hoothoot and Noctowl are hunters. They are active throughout the night, using their stellar vision to seek out insects and rodents scurrying about in the undergrowths of forests.","As birds of prey, both Hoothoot and Noctowl are hunters. They are active throughout the night, using their stellar vision to seek out insects and rodents scurrying about in the undergrowths of forests.","Ledyba flit about in swarms, feeding on the fruit and leaves of trees as well as the nectar of flowers. Ledian forgo nectar and only consume the aforementioned fruits and leaves, making them much less useful for farmers.","Ledyba flit about in swarms, feeding on the fruit and leaves of trees as well as the nectar of flowers. Ledian forgo nectar and only consume the aforementioned fruits and leaves, making them much less useful for farmers.","These Pokémon are both hunters, catching prey in their sticky webs. Spinarak usually trap insects like Cutiefly, but rarely catch small amphibians, reptiles, and mammals as well. Ariados can take down Pokémon as large as lone Stantler, binding them with silk and sucking out their fluids.","These Pokémon are both hunters, catching prey in their sticky webs. Spinarak usually trap insects like Cutiefly, but rarely catch small amphibians, reptiles, and mammals as well. Ariados can take down Pokémon as large as lone Stantler, binding them with silk and sucking out their fluids.","Both Zubat and Crobat feed on insects, fruits and Berries. Golbat are hematophagous, and are known to suck blood from both other Pokémon and from people. Crobat also suck blood from their victims, though they seem to prefer smaller prey.","Chinchou and Lanturn hunt aquatic prey by luring them close with their glowing bulbs and then either blinding them with flashes of light or shocking them with electricity. They normally feed on fish and crustaceans.","Chinchou and Lanturn hunt aquatic prey by luring them close with their glowing bulbs and then either blinding them with flashes of light or shocking them with electricity. They normally feed on fish and crustaceans.","The Pichu line consumes fruits and Berries, which they shock with their electricity to roast and soften. They are adventurous eaters, however; Pichu in urban areas have been known to rummage through restaurant dumpsters in search of gourmet food.","Researchers are unclear as to what wild members of the Cleffa line eat, though it is known that trained individuals will gladly consume Berries. Some scientists have hypothesized that Clefairy and Clefable store moonlight as energy in their “wings.” Cleffa are known to drink morning dew.","Members of the Igglybuff line are herbivores that eat fruits and Berries. They dislike dry and tannic food, but are especially partial to apples as well as to Leppa Berries.","According to popular culture, members of this line convert happiness and joy into energy, prosperity, and in Togetic’s case, joy dust. These Pokémon actually are herbivorous, primarily consuming Berries and other fruit; Togepi are fed by their parents until they evolve and leave the nest.","According to popular culture, members of this line convert happiness and joy into energy, prosperity, and in Togetic’s case, joy dust. These Pokémon actually are herbivorous, primarily consuming Berries and other fruit; Togepi are fed by their parents until they evolve and leave the nest.","Natu forage for Berries in shrubs and bushes. They will also eat plant shoots, and are particularly fond of the fruits of cacti; they can sometimes be seen pestering Maractus for their seeds. Xatu rarely eat, but share the same diet as their pre-evolutions.","Natu forage for Berries in shrubs and bushes. They will also eat plant shoots, and are particularly fond of the fruits of cacti; they can sometimes be seen pestering Maractus for their seeds. Xatu rarely eat, but share the same diet as their pre-evolutions.","Mareep graze on grass and other low-growing plants, while Flaaffy and Ampharos consume taller vegetation. These Pokémon are all ruminants and can digest tougher, fiber-rich plant matter that a person would have difficulty eating.","Mareep graze on grass and other low-growing plants, while Flaaffy and Ampharos consume taller vegetation. These Pokémon are all ruminants and can digest tougher, fiber-rich plant matter that a person would have difficulty eating.","Mareep graze on grass and other low-growing plants, while Flaaffy and Ampharos consume taller vegetation. These Pokémon are all ruminants and can digest tougher, fiber-rich plant matter that a person would have difficulty eating.","Mareep graze on grass and other low-growing plants, while Flaaffy and Ampharos consume taller vegetation. These Pokémon are all ruminants and can digest tougher, fiber-rich plant matter that a person would have difficulty eating.","The Azurill line are omnivorous. They graze on algae growing on rocks on riverbeds and lake bottoms, but also catch fish by anchoring themselves to tree trunks by their tails and diving into rushing waters.","The Azurill line are omnivorous. They graze on algae growing on rocks on riverbeds and lake bottoms, but also catch fish by anchoring themselves to tree trunks by their tails and diving into rushing waters.","Both Bonsly and Sudowoodo primarily consume dry Berries with low water contents, such as Chesto Berries. They also supplement their diets with rocks and soils, which provide them with minerals to repair their own bodies.","Poliwag feed on the roots of lily pads and on algae. Poliwhirl and Poliwrath also consume plant material from time to time, but also catch insects and small fish as well. Politoed are exclusively insectivores.","Hoppip and Skiploom can sustain themselves entirely via photosynthesis, though they will also eat Berries and leaves from the tops of trees as they float about. Jumpluff can no longer photosynthesize effectively, instead feeding solely on the aforementioned Berries and leaves. ","Hoppip and Skiploom can sustain themselves entirely via photosynthesis, though they will also eat Berries and leaves from the tops of trees as they float about. Jumpluff can no longer photosynthesize effectively, instead feeding solely on the aforementioned Berries and leaves. ","Hoppip and Skiploom can sustain themselves entirely via photosynthesis, though they will also eat Berries and leaves from the tops of trees as they float about. Jumpluff can no longer photosynthesize effectively, instead feeding solely on the aforementioned Berries and leaves. ","Both Aipom and Ambipom are herbivorous. They eat nuts, fruits, and Berries that grow high up in the treetops where they dwell. Their dextrous tails and ability to create tools allow them to consume foods difficult for other Pokémon to peel or shuck.","These Pokémon subsist almost entirely through photosynthesizing the energy they need with the aid of sunlight. Sunkern obtain much of their water from morning dew. Sunflora absorb trace nutrients from soil as they hurry about during the day; they also need lots of water to thrive.","These Pokémon subsist almost entirely through photosynthesizing the energy they need with the aid of sunlight. Sunkern obtain much of their water from morning dew. Sunflora absorb trace nutrients from soil as they hurry about during the day; they also need lots of water to thrive.","These Pokémon are both carnivorous. Yanma will hunt flying insects as they dart about swamps and woodlands. Yanmega will go after larger prey like Wooper, Psyduck, Starly, Jigglypuff, or Bidoof when hunting; they are not picky eaters and will consume nearly anything they can catch.","Wooper hunt small fish, insects, and crustaceans. They have also been observed nibbling on algae. Quagsire simply leave their mouths agape and will eat practically anything edible that manages to float inside.","Wooper hunt small fish, insects, and crustaceans. They have also been observed nibbling on algae. Quagsire simply leave their mouths agape and will eat practically anything edible that manages to float inside.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, feeding on seeds, nuts, insects, and carrion. Flocks of Murkrow will carry back large quantities of food for their Honchkrow leaders, only eating the scraps that fall away from the main feast.","The Slowpoke family are fishers, eating whatever seafood they manage to catch. Because of their slow reaction times, they are rarely successful in capturing fish or shellfish. However, because of their sluggishness, they also don’t need much energy to survive and can last weeks on one catch.","Misdreavus and Mismagius feed on fear. Misdreavus will pull a variety of tricks on others to elicit this fear (most famously by emitting their sob-like shrieks), while Mismagius can chant to hex prey and frighten them.","Unown do not seem to eat anything at all (or drink or even breathe, for that matter). They do not seem to have physical mouths; scientists are not even sure whether or not they have digestive systems.","Neither of these Pokémon are very fast, making them poor hunters. They consume Berries that grow near them; Wynaut prefer sweet Berries, particularly Liechi Berries. They have been known to kill insects that fly into their decoys with counters, however, and then subsequently eat them.","Girafarig are herbivores, grazing primarily on shrubs and low-growing plants, such as grass and tree shoots. Although their rear heads have teeth, they do not need to eat; their teeth appear to serve the sole purpose of defending the Pokémon.","Both Pineco and Forretress are insectivores. Pineco attract and trap insects by excreting a sticky, fragrant resin, especially nectarivores like Cutiefly. Forretress cannot produce this resin on their own and rely on nearby Pineco to roduce it for them; they open their shells faster than one can blink to capture bugs.","Both Pineco and Forretress are insectivores. Pineco attract and trap insects by excreting a sticky, fragrant resin, especially nectarivores like Cutiefly. Forretress cannot produce this resin on their own and rely on nearby Pineco to roduce it for them; they open their shells faster than one can blink to capture bugs.","Dunsparce are insectivores, using their sensitive protrusions to sense movement and track down subterranean bugs. They are also known to use their tails to drill into the earth and scare out more prey.","Gligar hunt small mammalian prey like Sentret and Stunky (who they can surprise and kill without being sprayed). Gliscor will go after practically any prey that it can subdue and carry, including Pokémon like Furret and Buizel. ","Both Onix and Steelix are lithophagous, eating rocks as they burrow beneath the earth’s surface. Onix that consume lots of metal ore are more likely to evolve into Steelix; Steelix actively seek out iron ore in particular to strengthen their own bodies. ","These Pokémon are naturally carnivores in real life, but they have become so popular as pets that specially-formulated food for them is available at most Poké Marts. Both Grepa and Tamato Berries are toxic to them and should be avoided at all costs.","These Pokémon are naturally carnivores in real life, but they have become so popular as pets that specially-formulated food for them is available at most Poké Marts. Both Grepa and Tamato Berries are toxic to them and should be avoided at all costs.","Qwilfish hunt fish, shellfish, and crustaceans. Although they seem to prefer the latter two, their spikes cannot pierce harder shells and carapaces, so they settle for injured and molting individuals that are vulnerable to their toxins.","Both Scyther and Scizor are strictly carnivorous hunters. They usually pursue small- to medium-sized mammals as their prey. Scyther, however, are known to pursue larger victims when in big packs. Both Pokémon will resort to catching small birds and rodents when food is scarce.","As mentioned previously, Shuckle eat nothing but Berries. Although they are most famed for the fermented juices they produce in their shells, they prefer fresh Berries, only siphoning from their storages when food is scarce.","Heracross love tree sap more than anything else in the world. They are content hooking their claws into tree bark to siphon sap for hours on end. If no tree sap is readily available, they will also settle for honey, particularly Combee Honey.","Sneasel feed on the eggs of Pokémon like Pidgey by cracking them and sucking out the insides. They also will steal food from of other predators. Weavile are ruthless pack hunters that can take down Piloswine and even Beartic. Alolan populations hunt Alolan Sandshrew and Alolan Vulpix, though the former is often a cause for broken claws; in wild packs, one Weavile will try to flip the Alolan Sandshrew over for the others to attack its underside in order to avoid this.","Teddiursa almost exclusively eat Honey, gathered from Beedrill pollen and nectar. They will resort to foraging for Berries when food is scarce. Ursaring are omnivores in the wild, but very much prefer Berries and will even consume them exclusively if they are abundant enough.","Teddiursa almost exclusively eat Honey, gathered from Beedrill pollen and nectar. They will resort to foraging for Berries when food is scarce. Ursaring are omnivores in the wild, but very much prefer Berries and will even consume them exclusively if they are abundant enough.","Slugma and Magcargo seem to be able to survive solely by absorbing minerals and nutrients from the magma that flows through their bodies. This magma can also transport nutrients obtained from organic sources to the rest of their bodies.","Slugma and Magcargo seem to be able to survive solely by absorbing minerals and nutrients from the magma that flows through their bodies. This magma can also transport nutrients obtained from organic sources to the rest of their bodies.","Swinub and Piloswine both enjoy mushrooms, particularly underground truffles. However, they are not picky and will eat basically anything edible they can find in the permafrost. Mamoswine forage vegetation during short summers and rely on stored fat to survive through frozen winters.","Swinub and Piloswine both enjoy mushrooms, particularly underground truffles. However, they are not picky and will eat basically anything edible they can find in the permafrost. Mamoswine forage vegetation during short summers and rely on stored fat to survive through frozen winters.","Corsola horns are actually porous. These Pokémon filter water through them like sieves, feeding on tiny plankton that they catch in the process.","Young Remoraid attach themselves to the undersides of Mantine, feeding on scraps that float by as their large hosts soar through the sea. Older individuals hunt insects with bullets of water in freshwater streams. Octillery ensnare fish and other oceanic prey with their tentacles for food.","Young Remoraid attach themselves to the undersides of Mantine, feeding on scraps that float by as their large hosts soar through the sea. Older individuals hunt insects with bullets of water in freshwater streams. Octillery ensnare fish and other oceanic prey with their tentacles for food.","On the frozen peaks where Delibird live, food is scarce. Because of this, they are not picky eaters; male Delibird will go on long journeys to forage for Berries, seeds, or whatever else they can find in more fertile locations. They gather plenty of food so they can share with those in need.","Both members of this line are filter feeders. They glide through the water with their mouths open to catch microscopic plankton; it takes an enormous amount of plankton to satiate them, so these Pokémon rarely stop moving (their sleep habits, or lack of them, are a subject of much research).","Skarmory are first and foremost hunters, attacking helpless prey from above with their sharp feathers and powerful talons. However, because they live in such barren environments, they cannot afford to be picky eaters; if they come across carrion, they will not hesitate to feast on it.","These Pokémon are pack hunters, going after whatever prey they can corner and take down. They are not picky predators; this is particularly of groups in bleak, food-poor environments. Houndour packs are known to go after prey much bigger than themselves using incredible teamwork.","These Pokémon are pack hunters, going after whatever prey they can corner and take down. They are not picky predators; this is particularly of groups in bleak, food-poor environments. Houndour packs are known to go after prey much bigger than themselves using incredible teamwork.","Horsea feed on algae as well as whatever small crustaceans and plankton they can siphon through their snouts. Seadra and Kingdra are more aggressive hunters. Seadra will paralyze prey by stabbing them with their poisonous spines, while both will disorient and trap victims with whirlpools.","Both Donphan and Phanpy are herbivores. Phanpy enjoy grazing on the tender shoots of grasses or other low-growing plants. Donphan, on the other hand, are able to digest hardier shrubs and leaves from low-hanging tree branches.","Both Donphan and Phanpy are herbivores. Phanpy enjoy grazing on the tender shoots of grasses or other low-growing plants. Donphan, on the other hand, are able to digest hardier shrubs and leaves from low-hanging tree branches.","None of the members of the Porgyon family need to eat to survive, as they are all made entirely of data. However, they are programmed with the ability to convert physical sustenance such as Berries into energy and absorb it.","Stantler herds graze on grasses and shrubs, traveling from one area to the next as they search for food. In more barren areas, such as mountains, they may also scrape off mosses and lichens from rocks for sustenance.","Smeargle are very fond of Berries, though they are technically omnivores. The types of Berries that they consume has been proven to have a very strong effect on their paint color, so Smeargle will go to great lengths to find particular varieties of them.","All Pokémon in the Tyrogue family eat much like humans do. Hitmonlee eat large amounts of food each day, while Tyrogue and Hitmonchan train their endurance by fasting. It is a well known joke that Hitmontop prefer to maintain “balanced” diets.","All Pokémon in the Tyrogue family eat much like humans do. Hitmonlee eat large amounts of food each day, while Tyrogue and Hitmonchan train their endurance by fasting. It is a well known joke that Hitmontop prefer to maintain “balanced” diets.","These Pokémon were long believed to be herbivorous, subsisting on the scant lichens and Berries that grew in their harsh wintry environments. However, some research has indicated that Jynx (though not Smoochum), may also hunt small mammals by captivating them with their dancing.","All Pokémon on this line are capable of feeding solely on electricity from sources like generators or natural lightning. However, they can also supplement their diets with plant material, particularly Berries.","These Pokémon appear to be able to survive consuming nothing but lava; unlike Pokémon like Slugma and Macargo, who are virtually made of the substance, it is unknown how they obtain the nutrients necessary to survive from this. They have also been recorded to feed on various Berries.","Miltank are primarily ruminant grazers. They eat grasses and other low-growing plants. However, unusual for a grazer, they also supplement their diets with many Berries; scientists believe many of the nutrients in their milk are derived from these Berries.","","","","","Larvitar feast on rocks and soil; in the wild, their mothers will bury them under mountains of dirt to keep them fed. Pupitar do not eat, relying on the energy they stored before evolution. Tyranitar are apex predators, feeding on Rock-, Ground-, and Steel-types found in their mountain homes.","Larvitar feast on rocks and soil; in the wild, their mothers will bury them under mountains of dirt to keep them fed. Pupitar do not eat, relying on the energy they stored before evolution. Tyranitar are apex predators, feeding on Rock-, Ground-, and Steel-types found in their mountain homes.","Larvitar feast on rocks and soil; in the wild, their mothers will bury them under mountains of dirt to keep them fed. Pupitar do not eat, relying on the energy they stored before evolution. Tyranitar are apex predators, feeding on Rock-, Ground-, and Steel-types found in their mountain homes.","","","","The Treecko line is insectivorous. Their superb agility allows them to capture even the most evasive bugs. These Pokémon are even known to nab flying insects in midair by jumping from one tree to another.","The Treecko line is insectivorous. Their superb agility allows them to capture even the most evasive bugs. These Pokémon are even known to nab flying insects in midair by jumping from one tree to another.","The Treecko line is insectivorous. Their superb agility allows them to capture even the most evasive bugs. These Pokémon are even known to nab flying insects in midair by jumping from one tree to another.","Torchic nibble on small seeds and insects that they can find in tall grass. Combusken and Blaziken are more avid hunters, using their fiery punches and kicks to pummel down mammalian prey.","Torchic nibble on small seeds and insects that they can find in tall grass. Combusken and Blaziken are more avid hunters, using their fiery punches and kicks to pummel down mammalian prey.","Torchic nibble on small seeds and insects that they can find in tall grass. Combusken and Blaziken are more avid hunters, using their fiery punches and kicks to pummel down mammalian prey.","All members of this family are hunters. Their diets consist primarily of fish and crustaceans that can tolerate the murky water they dwell in. Marshtomp and Swampert will use their powerful limbs to upheave silt and catch exposed shellfish.","All members of this family are hunters. Their diets consist primarily of fish and crustaceans that can tolerate the murky water they dwell in. Marshtomp and Swampert will use their powerful limbs to upheave silt and catch exposed shellfish.","All members of this family are hunters. Their diets consist primarily of fish and crustaceans that can tolerate the murky water they dwell in. Marshtomp and Swampert will use their powerful limbs to upheave silt and catch exposed shellfish.","Both of these Pokémon are capable hunters, with Mightyena preferring fresh meat over carrion. However, they are also famous for scavenging, which they will sometimes do. Meek Poochyena often fail to catch their own prey and have to settle for the scraps that others have left behind.","Both of these Pokémon are capable hunters, with Mightyena preferring fresh meat over carrion. However, they are also famous for scavenging, which they will sometimes do. Meek Poochyena often fail to catch their own prey and have to settle for the scraps that others have left behind.","Zigzagoon are omnivorous eaters. They will forage for plant shoots, mushrooms, and Berries--especially Oran Berries--in the wild, and dig through trash in urban areas. Linoone are hunters of small prey, but also continue to enjoy Oran as well as Sitrus Berries.","Zigzagoon are omnivorous eaters. They will forage for plant shoots, mushrooms, and Berries--especially Oran Berries--in the wild, and dig through trash in urban areas. Linoone are hunters of small prey, but also continue to enjoy Oran as well as Sitrus Berries.","Wurmple feed solely on sap. Both Silcoon and Cascoon do not eat, but may drink dew and rainwater. Beautifly primarily feed on pollen and nectar, but sometimes use their proboscises to suck the vital fluids from small prey. Dustox eat only leaves, especially those of Persim trees.","Wurmple feed solely on sap. Both Silcoon and Cascoon do not eat, but may drink dew and rainwater. Beautifly primarily feed on pollen and nectar, but sometimes use their proboscises to suck the vital fluids from small prey. Dustox eat only leaves, especially those of Persim trees.","Wurmple feed solely on sap. Both Silcoon and Cascoon do not eat, but may drink dew and rainwater. Beautifly primarily feed on pollen and nectar, but sometimes use their proboscises to suck the vital fluids from small prey. Dustox eat only leaves, especially those of Persim trees.","Wurmple feed solely on sap. Both Silcoon and Cascoon do not eat, but may drink dew and rainwater. Beautifly primarily feed on pollen and nectar, but sometimes use their proboscises to suck the vital fluids from small prey. Dustox eat only leaves, especially those of Persim trees.","Wurmple feed solely on sap. Both Silcoon and Cascoon do not eat, but may drink dew and rainwater. Beautifly primarily feed on pollen and nectar, but sometimes use their proboscises to suck the vital fluids from small prey. Dustox eat only leaves, especially those of Persim trees.","Lotad eat aquatic weeds that grow in and around ponds. They drink clean water to keep their leaves healthy. Lombre and Ludicolo are piscivorous. Lombre also enjoy Spelon Berries, so much so that they will eat them exclusively if given the chance (though this isn’t very healthy for them).","Lotad eat aquatic weeds that grow in and around ponds. They drink clean water to keep their leaves healthy. Lombre and Ludicolo are piscivorous. Lombre also enjoy Spelon Berries, so much so that they will eat them exclusively if given the chance (though this isn’t very healthy for them).","Lotad eat aquatic weeds that grow in and around ponds. They drink clean water to keep their leaves healthy. Lombre and Ludicolo are piscivorous. Lombre also enjoy Spelon Berries, so much so that they will eat them exclusively if given the chance (though this isn’t very healthy for them).","Seedot attach themselves to tree branches, trunks, or roots and suck water and nutrients from their hosts. Nuzleaf and Shiftry are herbivorous, feeding primarily on leaves; Shiftry also will consume tree bark. They never eat from the ancient trees that they inhabit, however.","Seedot attach themselves to tree branches, trunks, or roots and suck water and nutrients from their hosts. Nuzleaf and Shiftry are herbivorous, feeding primarily on leaves; Shiftry also will consume tree bark. They never eat from the ancient trees that they inhabit, however.","Seedot attach themselves to tree branches, trunks, or roots and suck water and nutrients from their hosts. Nuzleaf and Shiftry are herbivorous, feeding primarily on leaves; Shiftry also will consume tree bark. They never eat from the ancient trees that they inhabit, however.","Taillow often try to hunt Wurmple like their evolution, but usually fail and make do with seeds and nuts. Taillow swoop down from above to catch insects and fish without ever having to land on the ground.","Taillow often try to hunt Wurmple like their evolution, but usually fail and make do with seeds and nuts. Taillow swoop down from above to catch insects and fish without ever having to land on the ground.","Naturally, these Pokémon are piscivores. Wingull snatch fish from the water with their beaks, sometimes diving to catch them, while Pelipper scoop gulps of seawater to swallow whole. Both seem to favor small, schooling species like Wishiwashi. Wingull near cities have become accustomed to foraging human trash for food.","Naturally, these Pokémon are piscivores. Wingull snatch fish from the water with their beaks, sometimes diving to catch them, while Pelipper scoop gulps of seawater to swallow whole. Both seem to favor small, schooling species like Wishiwashi. Wingull near cities have become accustomed to foraging human trash for food.","Members of this family do not eat, instead deriving energy from the emotions of people and Pokémon around them. They require positive emotions like happiness, compassion, and love to stay healthy.","Members of this family do not eat, instead deriving energy from the emotions of people and Pokémon around them. They require positive emotions like happiness, compassion, and love to stay healthy.","Members of this family do not eat, instead deriving energy from the emotions of people and Pokémon around them. They require positive emotions like happiness, compassion, and love to stay healthy.","Surskit catch small fish and aquatic microorganisms that they attract using the scent glands on their heads. Masquerain, on the other hand, feed entirely on the nectar and leaves of aquatic plants.","Surskit catch small fish and aquatic microorganisms that they attract using the scent glands on their heads. Masquerain, on the other hand, feed entirely on the nectar and leaves of aquatic plants.","Shroomish feed on the wet, decaying plant matter scattered across their forest homes, playing an important ecological role as decomposers. They especially love Kebia Berries, fresh or rotten. Breloom instead eat the leaves of trees and other plants.","Shroomish feed on the wet, decaying plant matter scattered across their forest homes, playing an important ecological role as decomposers. They especially love Kebia Berries, fresh or rotten. Breloom instead eat the leaves of trees and other plants.","These Pokémon are herbivorous. Slakoth eat very little, subsisting on a meager three leaves a day. Vigoroth, in contrast, eat a lot; they are in charge of gathering food for themselves and for Slakoth. Slaking eat constantly, pulling up grass and plants directly around them in a circle.","These Pokémon are herbivorous. Slakoth eat very little, subsisting on a meager three leaves a day. Vigoroth, in contrast, eat a lot; they are in charge of gathering food for themselves and for Slakoth. Slaking eat constantly, pulling up grass and plants directly around them in a circle.","These Pokémon are herbivorous. Slakoth eat very little, subsisting on a meager three leaves a day. Vigoroth, in contrast, eat a lot; they are in charge of gathering food for themselves and for Slakoth. Slaking eat constantly, pulling up grass and plants directly around them in a circle.","Nincada suck nutrients and water from the roots of large trees. Ninjask enjoy tree sap and Honey, slashing away at tree bark with their claws to expose it. Shedinja do not eat or drink anything at all.","Nincada suck nutrients and water from the roots of large trees. Ninjask enjoy tree sap and Honey, slashing away at tree bark with their claws to expose it. Shedinja do not eat or drink anything at all.","Nincada suck nutrients and water from the roots of large trees. Ninjask enjoy tree sap and Honey, slashing away at tree bark with their claws to expose it. Shedinja do not eat or drink anything at all.","All members of this family are herbivorous. Since sun-loving plant life is difficult to come by in dark caves, these Pokémon venture into the open at night to find food near the entrances to their caves.","All members of this family are herbivorous. Since sun-loving plant life is difficult to come by in dark caves, these Pokémon venture into the open at night to find food near the entrances to their caves.","All members of this family are herbivorous. Since sun-loving plant life is difficult to come by in dark caves, these Pokémon venture into the open at night to find food near the entrances to their caves.","Makuhita and Hariyama eat lots of foods, particularly those dense in nutrients as well as calories. They will make do with whatever food they can find locally; this may means nuts and Berries in their mountain homes, oily fish near the sea, or even human food in towns and cities.","Makuhita and Hariyama eat lots of foods, particularly those dense in nutrients as well as calories. They will make do with whatever food they can find locally; this may means nuts and Berries in their mountain homes, oily fish near the sea, or even human food in towns and cities.","The Azurill line are omnivorous. They graze on algae growing on rocks on riverbeds and lake bottoms, but also catch fish by anchoring themselves to tree trunks by their tails and diving into rushing waters.","Both of these Pokémon feed on rocks and metal, especially iron. They use their magnetism to draw out the metal from rocks, but will also hunt iron-rich Steel-types if they wander too close.","Skitty love Berries, but will hunt small rodents and fish as well. Delcatty turn up their noses, quite literally, at leftovers and “dirty” prey, like Rattata. They will make do with fish and Berries, preferring to starve before eating meat. Domestic Delcatty will only eat the finest Pokémon food.","Skitty love Berries, but will hunt small rodents and fish as well. Delcatty turn up their noses, quite literally, at leftovers and “dirty” prey, like Rattata. They will make do with fish and Berries, preferring to starve before eating meat. Domestic Delcatty will only eat the finest Pokémon food.","Sableye use their sharp claws to dig holes into the walls of caves. They crush gemstones with their teeth before feasting on them. They also prey on Carbink for their jewels; they avoid Gigalith, however, because of the immense radioactive potential of their crystalline growths.","Mawile are predators, usually hunting small, organic Pokémon but sometimes aiming for prey as large as Makuhita. They also will eat rocks and Steel-types like Aron to supplement the growth of their horns.","These Pokémon subsist on iron. They will eat raw ore and process it within their bodies in order to extract the valuable metal. They relish pure iron and the simple iron alloys that are often found in human structures.","These Pokémon subsist on iron. They will eat raw ore and process it within their bodies in order to extract the valuable metal. They relish pure iron and the simple iron alloys that are often found in human structures.","These Pokémon subsist on iron. They will eat raw ore and process it within their bodies in order to extract the valuable metal. They relish pure iron and the simple iron alloys that are often found in human structures.","These Pokémon intentionally fast in order to practice restraint and strengthen their power. Meditite strive to only eat a single Berry each day, while Medicham can go for over a month without eating at all.","These Pokémon intentionally fast in order to practice restraint and strengthen their power. Meditite strive to only eat a single Berry each day, while Medicham can go for over a month without eating at all.","Both of these Pokémon are hunters. Electrike catch small rodents and mammals using small bursts of speed, while Manectric give chase to larger prey before stunning them with bolts of electricity.","Both of these Pokémon are hunters. Electrike catch small rodents and mammals using small bursts of speed, while Manectric give chase to larger prey before stunning them with bolts of electricity.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, eating fruits, nuts, and Berries. They also are known to siphon electricity for telephone poles and generators. Plusle climb tall structures in search of food while Minun forage on the ground.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, eating fruits, nuts, and Berries. They also are known to siphon electricity for telephone poles and generators. Plusle climb tall structures in search of food while Minun forage on the ground.","Both Volbeat and Illumise are herbivores, eating the leaves of plants that grow near the water’s edge. Volbeat swarms will wait for their Illumise to finish eating before they crowd around the food source.","Both Volbeat and Illumise are herbivores, eating the leaves of plants that grow near the water’s edge. Volbeat swarms will wait for their Illumise to finish eating before they crowd around the food source.","All members of this line practice photosynthesis; Budew and Roselia subsist entirely on sunlight and clean water. They prefer spring water that is rich in minerals, which can make their flowers brighter and more vivid. Roserade also use their toxic, thorny whips to hunt small mammals.","These Pokémon will eat practically anything. To put it shortly, if it exists, they can and will swallow and digest it, one way or another.","These Pokémon will eat practically anything. To put it shortly, if it exists, they can and will swallow and digest it, one way or another.","Both Carvanha and Sharpedo are carnivores. Carvanha overwhelm foes much larger themselves in schoolwide feeding frenzies. Sharpedo ram into prey at high speeds before viciously tearing them apart with their teeth.","Both Carvanha and Sharpedo are carnivores. Carvanha overwhelm foes much larger themselves in schoolwide feeding frenzies. Sharpedo ram into prey at high speeds before viciously tearing them apart with their teeth.","Wailmer are filter-feeders that pass enormous quantities of water through their sieve-like baleen plates to trap plankton and fish, which they can eat a full ton of daily. Wailord eat whole schools of small fish like Wishiwashi, which they capture and swallow whole in their gigantic mouths.","Wailmer are filter-feeders that pass enormous quantities of water through their sieve-like baleen plates to trap plankton and fish, which they can eat a full ton of daily. Wailord eat whole schools of small fish like Wishiwashi, which they capture and swallow whole in their gigantic mouths.","Numel and Camerupt mostly drink molten lava to fill their humps, with Camerupt using some of the minerals within to reinforce their bony ridges. They supplement their diets herbivorously, eating plants that grow in the rich volcanic soil around them.","Numel and Camerupt mostly drink molten lava to fill their humps, with Camerupt using some of the minerals within to reinforce their bony ridges. They supplement their diets herbivorously, eating plants that grow in the rich volcanic soil around them.","They do not react much to the presence of humans.","Both of these Pokémon are very fond of underground truffles. They will settle for more common fungi and lichens, however, if they cannot find these delicacies.","Both of these Pokémon are very fond of underground truffles. They will settle for more common fungi and lichens, however, if they cannot find these delicacies.","These Pokémon eat the shoots of young plants as well as Berries. They dislike Persim Berries, however. Some wild Spinda also seem to have a preference for rotten, fermented Berries, though this may be more of an acquired taste.","All members of this family are hunters. Trapinch patiently wait in their pits to trap unwary small mammals and reptiles, while Vibrava and Flygon are more active in hunting, pursuing prey as large as Sandslash. Vibrava use sound waves and corrosive acid to take down prey.","All members of this family are hunters. Trapinch patiently wait in their pits to trap unwary small mammals and reptiles, while Vibrava and Flygon are more active in hunting, pursuing prey as large as Sandslash. Vibrava use sound waves and corrosive acid to take down prey.","All members of this family are hunters. Trapinch patiently wait in their pits to trap unwary small mammals and reptiles, while Vibrava and Flygon are more active in hunting, pursuing prey as large as Sandslash. Vibrava use sound waves and corrosive acid to take down prey.","Cacnea shoot down prey attracted to their fragrant flowers by using Pin Missile; they may also club victims with their arms or root themselves into the sand for nutrients. Cacturne pursue prey in packs, following them relentlessly until they are overcome by paranoia and despair.","Cacnea shoot down prey attracted to their fragrant flowers by using Pin Missile; they may also club victims with their arms or root themselves into the sand for nutrients. Cacturne pursue prey in packs, following them relentlessly until they are overcome by paranoia and despair.","Both Swablu and Altaria eat seeds, nuts, insects, and Berries. Altaria in particular seem to have an aversion to sour foods like Aspear Berries.","Both Swablu and Altaria eat seeds, nuts, insects, and Berries. Altaria in particular seem to have an aversion to sour foods like Aspear Berries.","Zangoose are hunters, chasing down rodents and mammals before tearing them apart with their sharp claws. They are also known to steal the eggs of other Pokémon from time to time, especially when other prey is scarce.","Seviper hunt small mammals and rodents, slashing them with their sharp tails and incapacitating them with their powerful venom. They will also steal the eggs of other Pokémon, swallowing them whole.","Neither of these Pokémon appear to eat conventional food, organic or inorganic, like most other creatures do. Solrock do sunbathe to gather energy, though; Lunatone appear to do the same with moonlight.","Neither of these Pokémon appear to eat conventional food, organic or inorganic, like most other creatures do. Solrock do sunbathe to gather energy, though; Lunatone appear to do the same with moonlight.","Barboach are both predators and scavengers. They burrow into the mud with their barbs exposed to sense passing prey, but will also feed on carcasses and scraps from the meals of other Pokémon. Whiscash usually go after live prey, but won’t turn down “free” food, either.","Barboach are both predators and scavengers. They burrow into the mud with their barbs exposed to sense passing prey, but will also feed on carcasses and scraps from the meals of other Pokémon. Whiscash usually go after live prey, but won’t turn down “free” food, either.","These Pokémon are opportunistic feeders. They will hunt smaller Pokémon for food, but will also scavenge for rotting detritus as well. Both Pokémon also will consume aquatic plants and algae, both living and dead.","These Pokémon are opportunistic feeders. They will hunt smaller Pokémon for food, but will also scavenge for rotting detritus as well. Both Pokémon also will consume aquatic plants and algae, both living and dead.","Neither Baltoy or Claydol seem to require sustenance. However, they appear to be able to absorb liquids directly into their claylike bodies.","Neither Baltoy or Claydol seem to require sustenance. However, they appear to be able to absorb liquids directly into their claylike bodies.","Lileep capture small fish that swim past them in their tentacles, swallowing them whole. Cradily creep along the sea floor or beaches during low tide to dig up crustaceans, though they will also catch fish like Lileep. They dissolve their prey with secreted acid.","Lileep capture small fish that swim past them in their tentacles, swallowing them whole. Cradily creep along the sea floor or beaches during low tide to dig up crustaceans, though they will also catch fish like Lileep. They dissolve their prey with secreted acid.","Both of these Pokémon are hunters. Anorith ambush small fish and capture them in their front claws. Armaldo also prefer to hunt aquatic prey, but they can also pursue slower-moving terrestrial Pokémon as well.","Both of these Pokémon are hunters. Anorith ambush small fish and capture them in their front claws. Armaldo also prefer to hunt aquatic prey, but they can also pursue slower-moving terrestrial Pokémon as well.","Feebas feed on algae and aquatic plants that grow near muddy lake bottoms. Milotic, despite their large size, feed peacefully on plankton and plants, though they must eat a lot in order to sustain themselves.","Feebas feed on algae and aquatic plants that grow near muddy lake bottoms. Milotic, despite their large size, feed peacefully on plankton and plants, though they must eat a lot in order to sustain themselves.","As they themselves are composed primarily of water, these Pokémon must drink large amounts of the liquid; if they drink too much, they will simply diffuse clouds of water vapor from their bodies. They may eat Berries or other foods with plenty of juices to obtain nutrients.","Kecleon are insectivores. They blend in with trees and grasses around them and wait patiently for insects to fly by before catching them with their sticky, long tongues. They also have a mild affinity for Persim Berries.","Both of these Pokémon naturally feed on feelings of envy and vengeance in the wild. Shuppet will congregate under the eaves of houses whose inhabitants hold intense grudges. Trained individuals can instead feed on joy and happiness, however.","Both of these Pokémon naturally feed on feelings of envy and vengeance in the wild. Shuppet will congregate under the eaves of houses whose inhabitants hold intense grudges. Trained individuals can instead feed on joy and happiness, however.","Duskull and Dusclops feed on the life force of other living beings; it is thought that trapped spirits fuel the will-o’-the-wisps trapped inside Dusclops. Dusknoir don’t seem to eat at all and seem to be powered by a constant, unearthly energy.","Duskull and Dusclops feed on the life force of other living beings; it is thought that trapped spirits fuel the will-o’-the-wisps trapped inside Dusclops. Dusknoir don’t seem to eat at all and seem to be powered by a constant, unearthly energy.","Tropius pick tropical fruit from tall trees in their native jungles. Their absolute favorite fruit is the kind that grows around their necks, with Nanab Berries being an acceptable substitute in more temperate regions.","Both of these Pokémon are herbivores. They pick Berries and nuts from bushes. Chingling have been known to use their high-pitched cries to knock Berries off from hard-to-reach places onto the ground, where they can easily hop to them.","Absol are exclusively carnivorous hunters. These solitary Pokémon pursue smaller mammals in their mountain homes like Spoink and Spinda, using their sharp horns and claws to take them down.","Neither of these Pokémon are very fast, making them poor hunters. They consume Berries that grow near them; Wynaut prefer sweet Berries, particularly Liechi Berries. They have been known to kill insects that fly into their decoys with counters, however, and then subsequently eat them.","Snorunt subsist entirely on ice and snow. Glalie and Froslass hunt and freeze mammalian prey, consuming their frozen remains. Glalie will also eat already-icy Pokémon like Vanillite as well as ice-covered rocks to help repair their stone bodies.","Snorunt subsist entirely on ice and snow. Glalie and Froslass hunt and freeze mammalian prey, consuming their frozen remains. Glalie will also eat already-icy Pokémon like Vanillite as well as ice-covered rocks to help repair their stone bodies.","These Pokémon dive into frigid waters to catch fish, mollusks, and crustaceans. Walrein use their tough tusks to break open shellfish. Spheal have great difficulty swimming, so older Sealeo will often catch extra food to bring back for their younger brethren.","These Pokémon dive into frigid waters to catch fish, mollusks, and crustaceans. Walrein use their tough tusks to break open shellfish. Spheal have great difficulty swimming, so older Sealeo will often catch extra food to bring back for their younger brethren.","These Pokémon dive into frigid waters to catch fish, mollusks, and crustaceans. Walrein use their tough tusks to break open shellfish. Spheal have great difficulty swimming, so older Sealeo will often catch extra food to bring back for their younger brethren.","Clamperl trap small fish that swim by them with their shells. Huntail lure in aquatic prey with flashing lights and their lure-like tails. Gorebyss feed on algae in sunny waters, but also pierce aquatic mammals and fish with their proboscises to drain their bodily fluids.","Clamperl trap small fish that swim by them with their shells. Huntail lure in aquatic prey with flashing lights and their lure-like tails. Gorebyss feed on algae in sunny waters, but also pierce aquatic mammals and fish with their proboscises to drain their bodily fluids.","Clamperl trap small fish that swim by them with their shells. Huntail lure in aquatic prey with flashing lights and their lure-like tails. Gorebyss feed on algae in sunny waters, but also pierce aquatic mammals and fish with their proboscises to drain their bodily fluids.","Relicanth sieve seawater through their mouths to filter-feed, trapping tiny microorganisms. They don’t need to each much to survive, as they are slow Pokémon that do as much as they can to conserve energy.","Luvdisc feed on algae, seaweed, and plankton, all of which thrive in the warm tropical waters where they dwell. Schools of them can be seen congregating around and nibbling away at algae-covered rocks.","Bagon rarely eat, spending most of their time launching themselves off of cliffs. When they do eat, they will settle for whatever is nearby, whether it is Berries or small prey. Shelgon do not eat. Salamence take down large prey like Loudred and Donphan from the air.","Bagon rarely eat, spending most of their time launching themselves off of cliffs. When they do eat, they will settle for whatever is nearby, whether it is Berries or small prey. Shelgon do not eat. Salamence take down large prey like Loudred and Donphan from the air.","Bagon rarely eat, spending most of their time launching themselves off of cliffs. When they do eat, they will settle for whatever is nearby, whether it is Berries or small prey. Shelgon do not eat. Salamence take down large prey like Loudred and Donphan from the air.","These Pokémon hunt Pokémon like Larvitar, Nosepass, and Lairon to obtain metals and minerals. They use their magnetic abilities and sharp claws to capture prey. Metagross weigh victims down with their heavy bodies before eating them using the mouths underneath their main bodies.","These Pokémon hunt Pokémon like Larvitar, Nosepass, and Lairon to obtain metals and minerals. They use their magnetic abilities and sharp claws to capture prey. Metagross weigh victims down with their heavy bodies before eating them using the mouths underneath their main bodies.","These Pokémon hunt Pokémon like Larvitar, Nosepass, and Lairon to obtain metals and minerals. They use their magnetic abilities and sharp claws to capture prey. Metagross weigh victims down with their heavy bodies before eating them using the mouths underneath their main bodies.","","","","","","","","","","","All members of this family are capable of photosynthesis, but only Turtwig can survive entirely on only sunlight. Turtwig also enjoy Berries, while Grotle consume them as their primary food source. Torterra eat leave, branches, and shoots. These Pokémon drink plenty of clean water.","All members of this family are capable of photosynthesis, but only Turtwig can survive entirely on only sunlight. Turtwig also enjoy Berries, while Grotle consume them as their primary food source. Torterra eat leave, branches, and shoots. These Pokémon drink plenty of clean water.","All members of this family are capable of photosynthesis, but only Turtwig can survive entirely on only sunlight. Turtwig also enjoy Berries, while Grotle consume them as their primary food source. Torterra eat leave, branches, and shoots. These Pokémon drink plenty of clean water.","Chimchar and its evolutions are all omnivores; their diets primarily consist of fruits, Berries, and insects. They are known to innovative methods of finding food; for instance, they may ignite small swathes of ground to scare out underground insects.","Chimchar and its evolutions are all omnivores; their diets primarily consist of fruits, Berries, and insects. They are known to innovative methods of finding food; for instance, they may ignite small swathes of ground to scare out underground insects.","Chimchar and its evolutions are all omnivores; their diets primarily consist of fruits, Berries, and insects. They are known to innovative methods of finding food; for instance, they may ignite small swathes of ground to scare out underground insects.","All members of this family dive into icy seas to catch fish. Piplup and Prinplup are solitary hunters, but Empoleon work together in small flocks to hunt, approaching schools of fish from all sides to spook them into balling together.","","","Starly and Staravia are primarily insectivores. Starly peck at slow-moving insects on the ground, while Staravia can catch faster, aerial ones. Both Pokémon also indulge in fruits and nuts from time to time. Staraptor are predators fish and small mammals like Bidoof.","Starly and Staravia are primarily insectivores. Starly peck at slow-moving insects on the ground, while Staravia can catch faster, aerial ones. Both Pokémon also indulge in fruits and nuts from time to time. Staraptor are predators fish and small mammals like Bidoof.","Starly and Staravia are primarily insectivores. Starly peck at slow-moving insects on the ground, while Staravia can catch faster, aerial ones. Both Pokémon also indulge in fruits and nuts from time to time. Staraptor are predators fish and small mammals like Bidoof.","Bidoof and Bibarel eat the leaves, branches, and bark of the trees that they fell. They have special bacteria in their guts that allow them to digest cellulose much more efficiently than most other Pokémon.","Bidoof and Bibarel eat the leaves, branches, and bark of the trees that they fell. They have special bacteria in their guts that allow them to digest cellulose much more efficiently than most other Pokémon.","Kricketot and Kricketune both eat the leaves of shrubs as well as grasses. Kricketune are also surprisingly predatory, using their sharp, blade-like arms to slice smaller insects. Some scientists believe that they use special melodies to lure in prey.","Kricketot and Kricketune both eat the leaves of shrubs as well as grasses. Kricketune are also surprisingly predatory, using their sharp, blade-like arms to slice smaller insects. Some scientists believe that they use special melodies to lure in prey.","Members of the Shinx line are carnivorous. Luxio are responsible for bringing food back for their families, often going after prey like Doduo and Drowzee. To take down larger Pokémon like Bouffalant, Luxray may accompany them on their prowls as well.","Members of the Shinx line are carnivorous. Luxio are responsible for bringing food back for their families, often going after prey like Doduo and Drowzee. To take down larger Pokémon like Bouffalant, Luxray may accompany them on their prowls as well.","Members of the Shinx line are carnivorous. Luxio are responsible for bringing food back for their families, often going after prey like Doduo and Drowzee. To take down larger Pokémon like Bouffalant, Luxray may accompany them on their prowls as well.","All members of this line practice photosynthesis; Budew and Roselia subsist entirely on sunlight and clean water. They prefer spring water that is rich in minerals, which can make their flowers brighter and more vivid. Roserade also use their toxic, thorny whips to hunt small mammals.","All members of this line practice photosynthesis; Budew and Roselia subsist entirely on sunlight and clean water. They prefer spring water that is rich in minerals, which can make their flowers brighter and more vivid. Roserade also use their toxic, thorny whips to hunt small mammals.","Both of these Pokémon are omnivorous. About half of their diets consists of the leaves of ferns and low-growing shrubs, while the other half is made up of smaller mammals and reptiles they knock out with their headbutts.","Both of these Pokémon are omnivorous. About half of their diets consists of the leaves of ferns and low-growing shrubs, while the other half is made up of smaller mammals and reptiles they knock out with their headbutts.","Shieldon and Bastiodon are both herbivores. Most of their diets consist of tall grasses and low-growing shrubs, but they will also indulge in fruits, nuts, and Berries as well if they come across them.","Shieldon and Bastiodon are both herbivores. Most of their diets consist of tall grasses and low-growing shrubs, but they will also indulge in fruits, nuts, and Berries as well if they come across them.","Burmy and Wormadam feed on the leaves of the trees that they hang in. During emergencies, Plant Cloak individuals may eat their own cloaks, but this is a last resort option. Mothim steal honey directly from Combee hives.","Burmy and Wormadam feed on the leaves of the trees that they hang in. During emergencies, Plant Cloak individuals may eat their own cloaks, but this is a last resort option. Mothim steal honey directly from Combee hives.","Burmy and Wormadam feed on the leaves of the trees that they hang in. During emergencies, Plant Cloak individuals may eat their own cloaks, but this is a last resort option. Mothim steal honey directly from Combee hives.","Combee workers gather nectar from flowers to bring back to their nests, eating only enough to stay alive. They then use special enzymes within their bodies to partially digest this nectar and convert it into Honey, which goes towards feeding the queen Vespiquen and her grubs.","Combee workers gather nectar from flowers to bring back to their nests, eating only enough to stay alive. They then use special enzymes within their bodies to partially digest this nectar and convert it into Honey, which goes towards feeding the queen Vespiquen and her grubs.","Pachirisu forage for nuts and Berries. They create storage caches in the hollows of trees or the eaves of houses; they rely on their stashes when food becomes scarce, such as during harsh winters.","Both of these Pokémon catch fish to survive, though they will also sometimes eat bivalves as well. These clever creatures are known to use rocks to crack open the hard shells of their prey.","Both of these Pokémon catch fish to survive, though they will also sometimes eat bivalves as well. These clever creatures are known to use rocks to crack open the hard shells of their prey.","These Pokémon both photosynthesize sugars with the aid of sunlight. Cherubi rely on their withered secondary heads to supplement their growth while Cherrim draw upon energy during their time in their Sunshine forms to endure their Overcast Forms.","These Pokémon both photosynthesize sugars with the aid of sunlight. Cherubi rely on their withered secondary heads to supplement their growth while Cherrim draw upon energy during their time in their Sunshine forms to endure their Overcast Forms.","Both of these Pokémon graze on plankton and marine algae that grows on rocks near the shoreline. They will also eat seaweed growing in or near tidepools, and sometimes can even be seen congregating around large piles of kelp that have washed ashore.","Both of these Pokémon graze on plankton and marine algae that grows on rocks near the shoreline. They will also eat seaweed growing in or near tidepools, and sometimes can even be seen congregating around large piles of kelp that have washed ashore.","Both Aipom and Ambipom are herbivorous. They eat nuts, fruits, and Berries that grow high up in the treetops where they dwell. Their dextrous tails and ability to create tools allow them to consume foods difficult for other Pokémon to peel or shuck.","Wild Drifloon and Drifblim don’t seem to eat at all, though some believe that they somehow gain energy from the underworld. Trained individuals, though, are content eating Berries through small openings at the centers of their crosses.","Wild Drifloon and Drifblim don’t seem to eat at all, though some believe that they somehow gain energy from the underworld. Trained individuals, though, are content eating Berries through small openings at the centers of their crosses.","These Pokémon both graze on low-growing plants like grasses, flowers, and weeds. They are also known to knock down fruits and Berries from tall trees using their ears (in the case of Buneary) or their kicks (in the case of Lopunny).","These Pokémon both graze on low-growing plants like grasses, flowers, and weeds. They are also known to knock down fruits and Berries from tall trees using their ears (in the case of Buneary) or their kicks (in the case of Lopunny).","Misdreavus and Mismagius feed on fear. Misdreavus will pull a variety of tricks on others to elicit this fear (most famously by emitting their sob-like shrieks), while Mismagius can chant to hex prey and frighten them.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, feeding on seeds, nuts, insects, and carrion. Flocks of Murkrow will carry back large quantities of food for their Honchkrow leaders, only eating the scraps that fall away from the main feast.","These Pokémon catch small rodents like Rattata; surprisingly, they are rather easy to feed, with Purugly eating practically anything it comes across that it sees as edible. They will also eat human food products, rummaging through pantries and cabinets in homes.","These Pokémon catch small rodents like Rattata; surprisingly, they are rather easy to feed, with Purugly eating practically anything it comes across that it sees as edible. They will also eat human food products, rummaging through pantries and cabinets in homes.","Both of these Pokémon are herbivores. They pick Berries and nuts from bushes. Chingling have been known to use their high-pitched cries to knock Berries off from hard-to-reach places onto the ground, where they can easily hop to them.","These Pokémon are primarily insectivores, feeding on grubs and other terrestrial insects. However, they will also frequently eat Berries and funguses as well. They love Combee Honey and will actively try to infiltrate their hives, though they cannot subsist entirely on Honey.","These Pokémon are primarily insectivores, feeding on grubs and other terrestrial insects. However, they will also frequently eat Berries and funguses as well. They love Combee Honey and will actively try to infiltrate their hives, though they cannot subsist entirely on Honey.","It doesn’t seem like these Pokémon eat anything at all. Ancient peoples did leave out offerings of previous harvests for them however, either untouched or burned during elaborate rituals in their honor.","It doesn’t seem like these Pokémon eat anything at all. Ancient peoples did leave out offerings of previous harvests for them however, either untouched or burned during elaborate rituals in their honor.","Both Bonsly and Sudowoodo primarily consume dry Berries with low water contents, such as Chesto Berries. They also supplement their diets with rocks and soils, which provide them with minerals to repair their own bodies.","Both Pokémon eat like people do. In the wild, they will forage for nuts and Berries, but are also known to set invisible traps to catch unwary prey (and sometimes accidentally small children as well). Like children, Mime Jr. particularly enjoy sweets and will dig through trash to find candy.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, feeding on plant shoots and Berries. The eggs of Chansey and Blissey act as emergency food supplies for both themselves as well as travelers that they come across. They can survive for weeks when food is scarce solely on the eggs they carry with them.","Chatot are omnivorous. They will eat seeds, fruits, nuts, and Berries, but will also hunt small insects as well. They mimic the mating calls of their desired prey to attract unwary victims towards them.","These Pokémon do not seem to eat at all. Some believe that they may drain the life force of living things around them, while others believe that they somehow incorporate the evil thoughts and feelings of those near them like, wrath and vengeance, to make themselves stronger.","This line are carnivorous; Garchomp are apex predators that will hunt anything they find in their land, even swift bird Pokémon. They also have an affinity for Yache Berries, though they are hard to find in their natural habitats. Though Gabite hoard Carbink, they do not seem to prey on them.","This line are carnivorous; Garchomp are apex predators that will hunt anything they find in their land, even swift bird Pokémon. They also have an affinity for Yache Berries, though they are hard to find in their natural habitats. Though Gabite hoard Carbink, they do not seem to prey on them.","This line are carnivorous; Garchomp are apex predators that will hunt anything they find in their land, even swift bird Pokémon. They also have an affinity for Yache Berries, though they are hard to find in their natural habitats. Though Gabite hoard Carbink, they do not seem to prey on them.","Both of these Pokémon will attempt to eat practically anything they can get their hands on. Munchlax will rummage through garbage cans and kitchen pantries in search of food, while Snorlax will eat whatever is around them. Both seem to be tolerant of toxic plants and rotten food.","Riolu and Lucario are both omnivorous. Nuts and Berries make up a large part of their diets, while small mammals and fish make up the rest. Trained individuals prefer their meat cooked over raw. These Pokémon also have a notable affinity for chocolates like Sweet Hearts.","Riolu and Lucario are both omnivorous. Nuts and Berries make up a large part of their diets, while small mammals and fish make up the rest. Trained individuals prefer their meat cooked over raw. These Pokémon also have a notable affinity for chocolates like Sweet Hearts.","Since food is scarce in the deserts that these Pokémon call home, they are not picky eaters that will consume practically anything edible that they come across. This ranges from the rare plants that can tolerate the parched earth to smaller Pokémon that they ambush from under the sand. Hippopotas prefer to filter-feed by catching small creatures hiding in the dunes.","Since food is scarce in the deserts that these Pokémon call home, they are not picky eaters that will consume practically anything edible that they come across. This ranges from the rare plants that can tolerate the parched earth to smaller Pokémon that they ambush from under the sand. Hippopotas prefer to filter-feed by catching small creatures hiding in the dunes.","These Pokémon are hunters; Skorupi go after small insects and rodents, while Drapion catch larger prey: mammals, amphibians and reptiles. Desert dwellers may hunt the likes of Hippopotas and Sandshrew, while those in wetlands may pursue prey like Wooper instead.","These Pokémon are hunters; Skorupi go after small insects and rodents, while Drapion catch larger prey: mammals, amphibians and reptiles. Desert dwellers may hunt the likes of Hippopotas and Sandshrew, while those in wetlands may pursue prey like Wooper instead.","Croagunk and Toxicroak are primarily insectivorous; wild individuals can stomach venomous creatures like Skorupi with no ill effects. They have also been observed to consume poisonous plants, though this seems to be primarily for their toxins rather than nutrients.","Croagunk and Toxicroak are primarily insectivorous; wild individuals can stomach venomous creatures like Skorupi with no ill effects. They have also been observed to consume poisonous plants, though this seems to be primarily for their toxins rather than nutrients.","These Pokémon are arboreal hunters, dangling from tree branches to capture prey. While most of their diets is composed of insects, other creatures like mammals, reptiles, birds, and amphibians also are common prey.","Finneon graze on algae and coral polyps in productive coral reefs. Lumineon use their bioluminescence to attract and hunt small fish and invertebrates like Starmie deep below in ocean trenches, where food is far more scarce.","Finneon graze on algae and coral polyps in productive coral reefs. Lumineon use their bioluminescence to attract and hunt small fish and invertebrates like Starmie deep below in ocean trenches, where food is far more scarce.","Both members of this line are filter feeders. They glide through the water with their mouths open to catch microscopic plankton; it takes an enormous amount of plankton to satiate them, so these Pokémon rarely stop moving (their sleep habits, or lack of them, are a subject of much research).","It is unknown what these Pokémon eat in the wild. It is known that they practice photosynthesis, but the lack of sunlight in polar areas means that this is unlikely to be their only source of energy. Snover will eat Berries and plants, and it has been suggested that Abomasnow are predatory. Snover have also been observed rooting themselves into snowy soil to absorb water and nutrients.","It is unknown what these Pokémon eat in the wild. It is known that they practice photosynthesis, but the lack of sunlight in polar areas means that this is unlikely to be their only source of energy. Snover will eat Berries and plants, and it has been suggested that Abomasnow are predatory. Snover have also been observed rooting themselves into snowy soil to absorb water and nutrients.","Sneasel feed on the eggs of Pokémon like Pidgey by cracking them and sucking out the insides. They also will steal food from of other predators. Weavile are ruthless pack hunters that can take down Piloswine and even Beartic. Alolan populations hunt Alolan Sandshrew and Alolan Vulpix, though the former is often a cause for broken claws; in wild packs, one Weavile will try to flip the Alolan Sandshrew over for the others to attack its underside in order to avoid this.","Magnemite and their evolutions feed on electrical energy, which they need to generate the electromagnetic forces they use to levitate. Without this energy, they would be unable to float and fall to the ground. They can generate this energy themselves, though, by spinning their magnets.","Neither Lickitung nor Lickilicky are picky eaters at all. They will lick practically any object they find in front of them, and attempt to eat said objects if they taste even remotely edible (and sometimes, even if they don’t).","To the surprise of many, all Pokémon are this family are herbivores. Rhyhorn primarily graze on grass while their evolutions will eat leaves from trees as well. Badland-dwelling individuals are known to feed on cacti, rubbing the sharp spines off against their thick armor.","Both of these Pokémon are primarily carnivorous. Though they can gain small amounts of energy from photosynthesis, they are far more efficient at snagging unwary prey with their vines. Tangela will go after small mammals while Tangrowth are known to catch prey larger than humans.","All Pokémon on this line are capable of feeding solely on electricity from sources like generators or natural lightning. However, they can also supplement their diets with plant material, particularly Berries.","These Pokémon appear to be able to survive consuming nothing but lava; unlike Pokémon like Slugma and Macargo, who are virtually made of the substance, it is unknown how they obtain the nutrients necessary to survive from this. They have also been recorded to feed on various Berries.","According to popular culture, members of this line convert happiness and joy into energy, prosperity, and in Togetic’s case, joy dust. These Pokémon actually are herbivorous, primarily consuming Berries and other fruit; Togepi are fed by their parents until they evolve and leave the nest.","These Pokémon are both carnivorous. Yanma will hunt flying insects as they dart about swamps and woodlands. Yanmega will go after larger prey like Wooper, Psyduck, Starly, Jigglypuff, or Bidoof when hunting; they are not picky eaters and will consume nearly anything they can catch.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","Gligar hunt small mammalian prey like Sentret and Stunky (who they can surprise and kill without being sprayed). Gliscor will go after practically any prey that it can subdue and carry, including Pokémon like Furret and Buizel. ","Swinub and Piloswine both enjoy mushrooms, particularly underground truffles. However, they are not picky and will eat basically anything edible they can find in the permafrost. Mamoswine forage vegetation during short summers and rely on stored fat to survive through frozen winters.","None of the members of the Porgyon family need to eat to survive, as they are all made entirely of data. However, they are programmed with the ability to convert physical sustenance such as Berries into energy and absorb it.","Members of this family do not eat, instead deriving energy from the emotions of people and Pokémon around them. They require positive emotions like happiness, compassion, and love to stay healthy.","Both of these Pokémon feed on rocks and metal, especially iron. They use their magnetism to draw out the metal from rocks, but will also hunt iron-rich Steel-types if they wander too close.","Duskull and Dusclops feed on the life force of other living beings; it is thought that trapped spirits fuel the will-o’-the-wisps trapped inside Dusclops. Dusknoir don’t seem to eat at all and seem to be powered by a constant, unearthly energy.","Snorunt subsist entirely on ice and snow. Glalie and Froslass hunt and freeze mammalian prey, consuming their frozen remains. Glalie will also eat already-icy Pokémon like Vanillite as well as ice-covered rocks to help repair their stone bodies.","These Pokémon feed on electrical energy. They possess appliances plugged into outlets and siphon electricity through the power cables; they can do this regardless of whether the devices are on or off.","","","","","","","","","","Phione feed on algae and microscopic plankton as they drift about on warm ocean currents. They may sometimes dive into shallow coral reefs if they notice that food is particularly plentiful beneath them.","","","","","","All members of this line are capable of photosynthesis to derive energy from sunlight. Though they can eat solid foods and will do so in poor weather, they consider such feeding “lowly” and will try their best to avoid doing so.","All members of this line are capable of photosynthesis to derive energy from sunlight. Though they can eat solid foods and will do so in poor weather, they consider such feeding “lowly” and will try their best to avoid doing so.","All members of this line are capable of photosynthesis to derive energy from sunlight. Though they can eat solid foods and will do so in poor weather, they consider such feeding “lowly” and will try their best to avoid doing so.","Tepig roast Berries with fire to soften and char them before eating. Both Pignite and Emboar will eat practically anything, though they will primarily forage for Berries, mushrooms, and wild vegetables.","Tepig roast Berries with fire to soften and char them before eating. Both Pignite and Emboar will eat practically anything, though they will primarily forage for Berries, mushrooms, and wild vegetables.","Tepig roast Berries with fire to soften and char them before eating. Both Pignite and Emboar will eat practically anything, though they will primarily forage for Berries, mushrooms, and wild vegetables.","Oshawott use their scalchops to slice open hard Berries. They also catch small fish. Dewott and Samurott are primarily piscivorous, though they will also eat shellfish as well (using their weapons to crack open their shells).","Oshawott use their scalchops to slice open hard Berries. They also catch small fish. Dewott and Samurott are primarily piscivorous, though they will also eat shellfish as well (using their weapons to crack open their shells).","Oshawott use their scalchops to slice open hard Berries. They also catch small fish. Dewott and Samurott are primarily piscivorous, though they will also eat shellfish as well (using their weapons to crack open their shells).","Both of these Pokémon are omnivorous. They will eat grubs and insects that they find while digging tunnels underground. They will also store seeds and nuts they find aboveground in large piles in their burrows.","Both of these Pokémon are omnivorous. They will eat grubs and insects that they find while digging tunnels underground. They will also store seeds and nuts they find aboveground in large piles in their burrows.","Lillipup and their evolutions have evolved to survive on a diet of the same meats and vegetables that people do, as they have historically eaten meal scraps from their human companions. Some foods however, like Grepa Berries, can be poisonous to these Pokémon.","Lillipup and their evolutions have evolved to survive on a diet of the same meats and vegetables that people do, as they have historically eaten meal scraps from their human companions. Some foods however, like Grepa Berries, can be poisonous to these Pokémon.","Lillipup and their evolutions have evolved to survive on a diet of the same meats and vegetables that people do, as they have historically eaten meal scraps from their human companions. Some foods however, like Grepa Berries, can be poisonous to these Pokémon.","Purrloin hunt small rodents and lagomorphs, though they will also catch birds if they can sneak up on them before they take flight. Liepard can prey on bigger mammals and birds like Blitzle or Tranquill.","Purrloin hunt small rodents and lagomorphs, though they will also catch birds if they can sneak up on them before they take flight. Liepard can prey on bigger mammals and birds like Blitzle or Tranquill.","All members of this trio exclusively eat Berries. Simisage forage for many different Berries with knowledge of their different effects. Simisear roast Berries before consumption, particularly preferring sweet ones. Simipour water Berry trees to facilitate their growth.","All members of this trio exclusively eat Berries. Simisage forage for many different Berries with knowledge of their different effects. Simisear roast Berries before consumption, particularly preferring sweet ones. Simipour water Berry trees to facilitate their growth.","All members of this trio exclusively eat Berries. Simisage forage for many different Berries with knowledge of their different effects. Simisear roast Berries before consumption, particularly preferring sweet ones. Simipour water Berry trees to facilitate their growth.","All members of this trio exclusively eat Berries. Simisage forage for many different Berries with knowledge of their different effects. Simisear roast Berries before consumption, particularly preferring sweet ones. Simipour water Berry trees to facilitate their growth.","All members of this trio exclusively eat Berries. Simisage forage for many different Berries with knowledge of their different effects. Simisear roast Berries before consumption, particularly preferring sweet ones. Simipour water Berry trees to facilitate their growth.","All members of this trio exclusively eat Berries. Simisage forage for many different Berries with knowledge of their different effects. Simisear roast Berries before consumption, particularly preferring sweet ones. Simipour water Berry trees to facilitate their growth.","Both Munna and Musharna feed on the dreams of people and Pokémon, processing it into Dream Mist. Because nightmares can make them ill, they try to seek out beings having pleasant dreams instead.","Both Munna and Musharna feed on the dreams of people and Pokémon, processing it into Dream Mist. Because nightmares can make them ill, they try to seek out beings having pleasant dreams instead.","All of these Pokémon are generalist in terms of diet; they will eat seeds, grains, and insects that they come across in the wild. Flocks of Pidove will also peck at scraps left behind by humans in towns and cities.","All of these Pokémon are generalist in terms of diet; they will eat seeds, grains, and insects that they come across in the wild. Flocks of Pidove will also peck at scraps left behind by humans in towns and cities.","All of these Pokémon are generalist in terms of diet; they will eat seeds, grains, and insects that they come across in the wild. Flocks of Pidove will also peck at scraps left behind by humans in towns and cities.","Both Blitzle and Zebstrika feed entirely on grasses. Their stomachs have developed to specialize in processing such cellulose-rich herbage, allowing them to extract nutrients most other Pokémon would not be able to.","Both Blitzle and Zebstrika feed entirely on grasses. Their stomachs have developed to specialize in processing such cellulose-rich herbage, allowing them to extract nutrients most other Pokémon would not be able to.","Scientists aren’t quite sure what Roggenrola or Boldore eat, but most speculate that they feed on rocks and minerals (though they aren’t sure how they are taken in). Gigalith use their crystals to absorb sunlight and convert it to energy in their radioactive cores.","Scientists aren’t quite sure what Roggenrola or Boldore eat, but most speculate that they feed on rocks and minerals (though they aren’t sure how they are taken in). Gigalith use their crystals to absorb sunlight and convert it to energy in their radioactive cores.","Scientists aren’t quite sure what Roggenrola or Boldore eat, but most speculate that they feed on rocks and minerals (though they aren’t sure how they are taken in). Gigalith use their crystals to absorb sunlight and convert it to energy in their radioactive cores.","These Pokémon eat insects, fruits, and Berries. They leave their caves at night to gather food in forests, though some populations have been observed to exclusively subsist off of insects and plants within their cave systems.","These Pokémon eat insects, fruits, and Berries. They leave their caves at night to gather food in forests, though some populations have been observed to exclusively subsist off of insects and plants within their cave systems.","Drilbur eat small invertebrates that they find in the soil as they dig, supplementing their diets with fruits and plants found aboveground. Excadrill hunt other burrowing mammals that stumble into their labyrinthian tunnel systems.","Drilbur eat small invertebrates that they find in the soil as they dig, supplementing their diets with fruits and plants found aboveground. Excadrill hunt other burrowing mammals that stumble into their labyrinthian tunnel systems.","Audino eat Berries; they use their feelers to test if they are ripe by tapping them and listening to see if they are hollow or firm.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, having very large and varied diets. Nuts and Berries make up the bulk of their meals, but fish, grains, and meat also compose a significant portion of what they eat.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, having very large and varied diets. Nuts and Berries make up the bulk of their meals, but fish, grains, and meat also compose a significant portion of what they eat.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, having very large and varied diets. Nuts and Berries make up the bulk of their meals, but fish, grains, and meat also compose a significant portion of what they eat.","Tympole feed on aquatic insects, algae, and weeds. Palpitoad and Seismitoad both eat aquatic and aerial insects, and Seismitoad will additionally consume practically any mammal or reptile they can fit into their mouths.","Tympole feed on aquatic insects, algae, and weeds. Palpitoad and Seismitoad both eat aquatic and aerial insects, and Seismitoad will additionally consume practically any mammal or reptile they can fit into their mouths.","Tympole feed on aquatic insects, algae, and weeds. Palpitoad and Seismitoad both eat aquatic and aerial insects, and Seismitoad will additionally consume practically any mammal or reptile they can fit into their mouths.","Throh are big eaters; they prefer foods that are high in protein and fats, like nuts, legumes, and meat. Sawk, on the other hand, will go long periods of time without eating as they train. When they do eat, they restrict themselves to basic, lean foods like grains, vegetables, and fish.","Throh are big eaters; they prefer foods that are high in protein and fats, like nuts, legumes, and meat. Sawk, on the other hand, will go long periods of time without eating as they train. When they do eat, they restrict themselves to basic, lean foods like grains, vegetables, and fish.","","Sewaddle and Leavanny feed on the leaves of plants. Sewaddle will begin to nibble at their own clothing when starving. Swadloon are decomposers, digesting fallen, decaying leaves on the forest floor.","Sewaddle and Leavanny feed on the leaves of plants. Sewaddle will begin to nibble at their own clothing when starving. Swadloon are decomposers, digesting fallen, decaying leaves on the forest floor.","While Whirlipede don’t eat, both Venipede and Scolipede are hunters. Venipede chase down small mammals, amphibians, reptiles, and other insects. Scolipede are apex predators that will hunt large avian and mammalian prey like the simian trio.","While Whirlipede don’t eat, both Venipede and Scolipede are hunters. Venipede chase down small mammals, amphibians, reptiles, and other insects. Scolipede are apex predators that will hunt large avian and mammalian prey like the simian trio.","While Whirlipede don’t eat, both Venipede and Scolipede are hunters. Venipede chase down small mammals, amphibians, reptiles, and other insects. Scolipede are apex predators that will hunt large avian and mammalian prey like the simian trio.","These Pokémon use the green leaves (or tendrils, in the case of Whimsicott) to photosynthesize. Because they are so light and don’t expend energy to travel, they can survive on relatively little sunlight compared to other Grass-types.","These Pokémon use the green leaves (or tendrils, in the case of Whimsicott) to photosynthesize. Because they are so light and don’t expend energy to travel, they can survive on relatively little sunlight compared to other Grass-types.","Both Petilil and Lilligant can obtain all of the energy that they need from sunlight through photosynthesis. Petilil will store extra sugars when in good weather so they won’t go hungry in the event that they shed their leaves to escape from predators.","Both Petilil and Lilligant can obtain all of the energy that they need from sunlight through photosynthesis. Petilil will store extra sugars when in good weather so they won’t go hungry in the event that they shed their leaves to escape from predators.","These Pokémon will eat nearly anything they can fit within their mouths. This includes freshwater insects, shellfish, crustacean, fish roe, and smaller fish—including young Basculin of the opposing form.","These Pokémon are carnivorous, hunting mammals, birds, and reptiles that they find in the desert. Sandile ambush small prey like Natu and especially Trapinch, while Krookodile may hunt larger targets like Hippopotas. Sandile often scavenge to make up for what they cannot catch by hunting. These Pokémon also swallow stones to help them digest food.","These Pokémon are carnivorous, hunting mammals, birds, and reptiles that they find in the desert. Sandile ambush small prey like Natu and especially Trapinch, while Krookodile may hunt larger targets like Hippopotas. Sandile often scavenge to make up for what they cannot catch by hunting. These Pokémon also swallow stones to help them digest food.","These Pokémon are carnivorous, hunting mammals, birds, and reptiles that they find in the desert. Sandile ambush small prey like Natu and especially Trapinch, while Krookodile may hunt larger targets like Hippopotas. Sandile often scavenge to make up for what they cannot catch by hunting. These Pokémon also swallow stones to help them digest food.","Darumaka subsist on insects, arachnids, and whatever plants they can find in the harsh desert. Darumaka add onto this list small mammals. When they have gone a long time without food, they may enter their Zen Modes to conserve energy; they do not need to eat in this form.","Darumaka subsist on insects, arachnids, and whatever plants they can find in the harsh desert. Darumaka add onto this list small mammals. When they have gone a long time without food, they may enter their Zen Modes to conserve energy; they do not need to eat in this form.","Maractus photosynthesize to survive; they have adapted to open their stomata at night while sleeping so they don’t lose precious water to the desert sun. They also root themselves into the sand to obtain nutrients. Maractus will soak up and store large amounts of water when it rains.","Though plant matter seems to be their preferred source of food, these Pokémon are opportunistic feeders. They are usually scavengers in the wild, picking at carcasses and meal scraps left by other creatures.","Though plant matter seems to be their preferred source of food, these Pokémon are opportunistic feeders. They are usually scavengers in the wild, picking at carcasses and meal scraps left by other creatures.","Scraggy are primarily insectivorous, catching insects scurrying across or beneath the desert sand. Scrafty will hunt small mammals in addition to this; groups of them will gang up on a single target and share the spoils.","Scraggy are primarily insectivorous, catching insects scurrying across or beneath the desert sand. Scrafty will hunt small mammals in addition to this; groups of them will gang up on a single target and share the spoils.","Sigilyph don’t appear to eat anything at all. They seem to be able to absorb liquids directly into their bodies, however.","Scientists aren’t quite sure exactly what Yamask eat; they are attracted to human food, however, hovering over it without actually eating any. Cofagrigus consume pure gold to reinforce their own bodies.","Scientists aren’t quite sure exactly what Yamask eat; they are attracted to human food, however, hovering over it without actually eating any. Cofagrigus consume pure gold to reinforce their own bodies.","Both of these Pokémon are primarily predatory, hunting fish and shellfish in the water and small crustaceans on beaches. Carracosta also consume iron and other minerals to strengthen their tough shells.","Both of these Pokémon are primarily predatory, hunting fish and shellfish in the water and small crustaceans on beaches. Carracosta also consume iron and other minerals to strengthen their tough shells.","Both Archen and Archeops are omnivorous. Fruit makes up a large portion of their diets; Archen also will eat insects and seeds, while Archeops will work together to take down mammalian, reptilian, and aquatic prey.","Both Archen and Archeops are omnivorous. Fruit makes up a large portion of their diets; Archen also will eat insects and seeds, while Archeops will work together to take down mammalian, reptilian, and aquatic prey.","These Pokémon eat all kinds of solid waste. They are decomposers, digesting what matter they can while incorporating some of it into their own bodies. They also use the putrid chemicals that develop during decomposition to defend themselves.","These Pokémon eat all kinds of solid waste. They are decomposers, digesting what matter they can while incorporating some of it into their own bodies. They also use the putrid chemicals that develop during decomposition to defend themselves.","Both of these Pokémon are carnivorous. Zorua will disguise themselves to sneakily ambush small rodents, while Zoroark will use more elaborate mirages to disorient larger mammalian prey before striking.","Both of these Pokémon are carnivorous. Zorua will disguise themselves to sneakily ambush small rodents, while Zoroark will use more elaborate mirages to disorient larger mammalian prey before striking.","Both of Minccino and Cinccino are primarily herbivorous, eating leaves, fruits, and seeds. They will also sometimes eat small insects as well. They make sure to always clean their food with their fur before eating it.","Both of Minccino and Cinccino are primarily herbivorous, eating leaves, fruits, and seeds. They will also sometimes eat small insects as well. They make sure to always clean their food with their fur before eating it.","These Pokémon seem to be pacifists; despite what legends may say, they try not to harm other living creatures. Thus, they are entirely herbivorous, subsisting entirely on Berries, fruits, and vegetables.","These Pokémon seem to be pacifists; despite what legends may say, they try not to harm other living creatures. Thus, they are entirely herbivorous, subsisting entirely on Berries, fruits, and vegetables.","These Pokémon seem to be pacifists; despite what legends may say, they try not to harm other living creatures. Thus, they are entirely herbivorous, subsisting entirely on Berries, fruits, and vegetables.","These Pokémon feed through a process known as endocytosis. When they come across food—for example, a Berry—they will surround it with their own bodies and then pinch off the cell membrane around it, forming a vesicle. Reuniclus aid this process with their grasping hands.","These Pokémon feed through a process known as endocytosis. When they come across food—for example, a Berry—they will surround it with their own bodies and then pinch off the cell membrane around it, forming a vesicle. Reuniclus aid this process with their grasping hands.","These Pokémon feed through a process known as endocytosis. When they come across food—for example, a Berry—they will surround it with their own bodies and then pinch off the cell membrane around it, forming a vesicle. Reuniclus aid this process with their grasping hands.","Ducklett love peat moss, but they will also eat algae and aquatic plants they can find while diving in ponds. Swanna continue to eat aquatic plants, but no longer enjoy peat moss; they will still look for it to feed their offspring, however.","Ducklett love peat moss, but they will also eat algae and aquatic plants they can find while diving in ponds. Swanna continue to eat aquatic plants, but no longer enjoy peat moss; they will still look for it to feed their offspring, however.","These Pokémon seem to subsist entirely on glacial water, which they freeze and incorporate into their bodies. They can only drink pure water with no impurities, as unwanted substances can interfere with their body compositions.","These Pokémon seem to subsist entirely on glacial water, which they freeze and incorporate into their bodies. They can only drink pure water with no impurities, as unwanted substances can interfere with their body compositions.","These Pokémon seem to subsist entirely on glacial water, which they freeze and incorporate into their bodies. They can only drink pure water with no impurities, as unwanted substances can interfere with their body compositions.","Both Deerling and Sawsbuck graze on low-growing vegetation, such as grasses, bushes, and shrubs. They also will sunbathe and drink plenty of water to support the plants that grow on their own bodies.","Both Deerling and Sawsbuck graze on low-growing vegetation, such as grasses, bushes, and shrubs. They also will sunbathe and drink plenty of water to support the plants that grow on their own bodies.","Emolga are omnivorous. Their gather nuts, seeds, and Berries and store them in their nests to prepare for cold winters. In warmer seasons, they will use their electricity to stun and hunt small insects.","Karrablast prey on soft-bodied mollusks, as well as on leaves of plants and grasses. Escavalier are also omnivorous, lancing small rodents and insects in addition to plant matter.","Karrablast prey on soft-bodied mollusks, as well as on leaves of plants and grasses. Escavalier are also omnivorous, lancing small rodents and insects in addition to plant matter.","Foongus play a valuable role in their ecosystems as decomposers, breaking down the remains of deceased organisms and rotting vegetation. Amoonguss continue to play this role, but will also hunt small insects and mammals by luring them in with their odd swaying.","Foongus play a valuable role in their ecosystems as decomposers, breaking down the remains of deceased organisms and rotting vegetation. Amoonguss continue to play this role, but will also hunt small insects and mammals by luring them in with their odd swaying.","These Pokémon feed on the life force of other living things. Frillish wrap their prey in their tentacles to poison them before dragging them into the crushing depths. Jellicent don’t bother with this, siphoning life force directly from their victims and letting their bodies sink to the sea floor.","These Pokémon feed on the life force of other living things. Frillish wrap their prey in their tentacles to poison them before dragging them into the crushing depths. Jellicent don’t bother with this, siphoning life force directly from their victims and letting their bodies sink to the sea floor.","Though many people believe that these peaceful, caring Pokémon feed on ocean algae and kelp, they are actually entirely carnivorous. Specifically, they feed on cnidarians like Tentacool and Frillish; they are immune to their poisons and suffer no ill effects when eating them.","Joltik are parasitic; they use their bristles to attach themselves to the fur of other Pokémon and feed on static electricity. They may also feed on electricity found in cities. Galvantula use electrified silk to hunt smaller mammal and insect prey.","Joltik are parasitic; they use their bristles to attach themselves to the fur of other Pokémon and feed on static electricity. They may also feed on electricity found in cities. Galvantula use electrified silk to hunt smaller mammal and insect prey.","Ferroseed use their thorns to embed themselves into the walls and ceilings of caverns. They drain minerals from these rocks to survive. Ferrothorn are hunters that use their thorny feelers to take down prey.","Ferroseed use their thorns to embed themselves into the walls and ceilings of caverns. They drain minerals from these rocks to survive. Ferrothorn are hunters that use their thorny feelers to take down prey.","All members of the Klink family generate their own energy by spinning their interlocking units in tandem with one another; powered by magnetic forces, these Pokémon convert mechanical energy into electrical energy.","All members of the Klink family generate their own energy by spinning their interlocking units in tandem with one another; powered by magnetic forces, these Pokémon convert mechanical energy into electrical energy.","All members of the Klink family generate their own energy by spinning their interlocking units in tandem with one another; powered by magnetic forces, these Pokémon convert mechanical energy into electrical energy.","In the water, Tynamo feed on plankton and algae; they will consume moss and small plants on land. Eelektrik primarily hunt small fish, but may also dig circular holes into the flesh of larger Pokémon. Eelektross are apex predators that hunt both in the water and on the shore.","In the water, Tynamo feed on plankton and algae; they will consume moss and small plants on land. Eelektrik primarily hunt small fish, but may also dig circular holes into the flesh of larger Pokémon. Eelektross are apex predators that hunt both in the water and on the shore.","In the water, Tynamo feed on plankton and algae; they will consume moss and small plants on land. Eelektrik primarily hunt small fish, but may also dig circular holes into the flesh of larger Pokémon. Eelektross are apex predators that hunt both in the water and on the shore.","It is unknown what these Pokémon eat in the wild. Trained Elgyem and Beeheyem will eat Berries, fruits, and other standard food items as most other Pokémon do, but these creatures are most often sighted in barren areas where few plants can be found growing.","It is unknown what these Pokémon eat in the wild. Trained Elgyem and Beeheyem will eat Berries, fruits, and other standard food items as most other Pokémon do, but these creatures are most often sighted in barren areas where few plants can be found growing.","All members of the Litwick family feed on the life energy of living beings, burning it as fuel for their flames. Litwick fool travelers by pretending to be guides, Lampent await for nearly-dead beings to pass, and Chandelure entrance prey with mesmerizing dances.","All members of the Litwick family feed on the life energy of living beings, burning it as fuel for their flames. Litwick fool travelers by pretending to be guides, Lampent await for nearly-dead beings to pass, and Chandelure entrance prey with mesmerizing dances.","All members of the Litwick family feed on the life energy of living beings, burning it as fuel for their flames. Litwick fool travelers by pretending to be guides, Lampent await for nearly-dead beings to pass, and Chandelure entrance prey with mesmerizing dances.","All members of this line are omnivorous. They use their tusks to crack open hard nuts and Berries, while Haxorus may also cut down trees so they and other, smaller Pokémon can access their fruit. They also hunt smaller mammals, and are known to lick dirt to obtain trace minerals.","All members of this line are omnivorous. They use their tusks to crack open hard nuts and Berries, while Haxorus may also cut down trees so they and other, smaller Pokémon can access their fruit. They also hunt smaller mammals, and are known to lick dirt to obtain trace minerals.","All members of this line are omnivorous. They use their tusks to crack open hard nuts and Berries, while Haxorus may also cut down trees so they and other, smaller Pokémon can access their fruit. They also hunt smaller mammals, and are known to lick dirt to obtain trace minerals.","Beartic hunt fish and aquatic mammals to feed both themselves and their offspring. They are particularly fond of Sealeo and Dewgong, as their thick blubber provides plenty of energy for these Pokémon.","Beartic hunt fish and aquatic mammals to feed both themselves and their offspring. They are particularly fond of Sealeo and Dewgong, as their thick blubber provides plenty of energy for these Pokémon.","Surprisingly, these water-based Pokémon are actually predatory. They capture small birds and mammals in chains of ice before dragging them in and consuming them. They also drink large amounts of water to maintain their body compositions.","Shelmet eat algae, moss, and aquatic plants that grow near the mud they bury themselves in. They will also suck in tiny invertebrates that swim too close. Accelgor hunt small insects, mollusks, and crustaceans.","Shelmet eat algae, moss, and aquatic plants that grow near the mud they bury themselves in. They will also suck in tiny invertebrates that swim too close. Accelgor hunt small insects, mollusks, and crustaceans.","Stunfisk are not picky as to what they eat; they will shock and try to prey upon practically anything that steps on them. This includes birds and mammals that wade into their marshes, for instance, crustaceans that scuttle on top of them as they travel, or fish that stop to rest on the mud. ","Both Mienfoo and Mienshao are omnivorous. They will eat Berries and nuts as well as small rodents and fish; these Pokémon seem especially fond of the latter, which they will catch as they clean their fur by rivers.","Both Mienfoo and Mienshao are omnivorous. They will eat Berries and nuts as well as small rodents and fish; these Pokémon seem especially fond of the latter, which they will catch as they clean their fur by rivers.","Druddigon are strictly predatory. They lurk through tunnel systems in search of subterranean and cavern Pokémon; they are even known to try and hunt down Excadrill for both food and their tunnel systems (though Excadrill can and will defend themselves well).","Although trained individuals have been observed consuming Berries, wild Golett and Golurk seem to be able to survive without eating at all. It is thought that the energy contained within them is enough to keep them alive and functioning.","Although trained individuals have been observed consuming Berries, wild Golett and Golurk seem to be able to survive without eating at all. It is thought that the energy contained within them is enough to keep them alive and functioning.","These Pokémon hunt large mammalian prey. Groups of Pawniard will leap onto and dig their blades into victims to maim them before the leader Bisharp deals the finishing blow; the Bisharp will eat first while its Pawniard will crowd around the scraps.","These Pokémon hunt large mammalian prey. Groups of Pawniard will leap onto and dig their blades into victims to maim them before the leader Bisharp deals the finishing blow; the Bisharp will eat first while its Pawniard will crowd around the scraps.","Bouffalant are herbivorous grazers; wild individuals will feed almost exclusively on grasses. Outside of their natural habitats, these Pokémon will also graze on other low-growing plants, like weeds and small shrubs.","Both Rufflet and Braviary are piscivores. Braviary swoop down to the surface of wetlands to grab fish and crustaceans in their powerful talons. They will bring back food for their young for a few weeks before pushing them out of their nests; young Rufflet usually make ends meet with nuts and Berries, though those that are more experienced may hunt Shellder and other invertebrates.","Both Rufflet and Braviary are piscivores. Braviary swoop down to the surface of wetlands to grab fish and crustaceans in their powerful talons. They will bring back food for their young for a few weeks before pushing them out of their nests; young Rufflet usually make ends meet with nuts and Berries, though those that are more experienced may hunt Shellder and other invertebrates.","Mandibuzz are scavengers that pick at the carcasses left behind by predators; they also hunt lone Cubone for both bones and sustenance. They bring food back to their young, who will eat nearly anything. Hungry Vullaby will try to chase down anything smaller than them that comes near.","Mandibuzz are scavengers that pick at the carcasses left behind by predators; they also hunt lone Cubone for both bones and sustenance. They bring food back to their young, who will eat nearly anything. Hungry Vullaby will try to chase down anything smaller than them that comes near.","Heatmor are incredibly specialized hunters in the wild; they will exclusively feed on Durant, who they have adapted to hunt over thousands of years; they would sooner starve than find other food sources if local Durant colonies collapse.","Durant are primarily herbivorous. They will gather leaves and other plant matter and bring them back to their colonies, delegating which areas each individual will search for food amongst themselves. ","All members of this family will eat practically anything moving that they can find. Zweilous are the most voracious of the line, but Hydreigon are apex predators that will leave their caves to hunt prey.","All members of this family will eat practically anything moving that they can find. Zweilous are the most voracious of the line, but Hydreigon are apex predators that will leave their caves to hunt prey.","All members of this family will eat practically anything moving that they can find. Zweilous are the most voracious of the line, but Hydreigon are apex predators that will leave their caves to hunt prey.","Both members of the Larvesta line are herbivores. They feed on the vibrant plant life that grows in the fertile volcanic soil near their homes. Ancient peoples also used to leave out offerings to thank these Pokémon.","Both members of the Larvesta line are herbivores. They feed on the vibrant plant life that grows in the fertile volcanic soil near their homes. Ancient peoples also used to leave out offerings to thank these Pokémon.","","","","","","","","","","","","","These Pokémon eat are both insectivorous and herbivorous. They prefer foods that are rich in cellulose, which they repurpose in their own woody carapaces. ","These Pokémon eat are both insectivorous and herbivorous. They prefer foods that are rich in cellulose, which they repurpose in their own woody carapaces. ","These Pokémon eat are both insectivorous and herbivorous. They prefer foods that are rich in cellulose, which they repurpose in their own woody carapaces. ","Fennekin are entirely herbivorous, eating only dry sticks and branches (they also will turn down fresh sticks that have not yet become brittle). Braixen and Delphox are omnivorous, hunting small mammals as well as foraging for Berries.","Fennekin are entirely herbivorous, eating only dry sticks and branches (they also will turn down fresh sticks that have not yet become brittle). Braixen and Delphox are omnivorous, hunting small mammals as well as foraging for Berries.","Fennekin are entirely herbivorous, eating only dry sticks and branches (they also will turn down fresh sticks that have not yet become brittle). Braixen and Delphox are omnivorous, hunting small mammals as well as foraging for Berries.","All members of this family are insectivorous. They are ambush hunters, lying patiently in wait for unwary prey to wander by before striking out with their sticky tongues. Frogadier will cloak themselves in bubbles and wait at the water’s surface while Greninja find cover in dark, shaded areas.","All members of this family are insectivorous. They are ambush hunters, lying patiently in wait for unwary prey to wander by before striking out with their sticky tongues. Frogadier will cloak themselves in bubbles and wait at the water’s surface while Greninja find cover in dark, shaded areas.","All members of this family are insectivorous. They are ambush hunters, lying patiently in wait for unwary prey to wander by before striking out with their sticky tongues. Frogadier will cloak themselves in bubbles and wait at the water’s surface while Greninja find cover in dark, shaded areas.","Both Bunnelby and Diggersby are herbivorous. They eat the roots of plants and trees that they come across underground as they burrow through the dirt. Above the surface, they can also be seen grazing on grasses and low-growing plants.","Both Bunnelby and Diggersby are herbivorous. They eat the roots of plants and trees that they come across underground as they burrow through the dirt. Above the surface, they can also be seen grazing on grasses and low-growing plants.","Fletchling eat small insects and seeds. Fletchinder continue to catch insects and occasionally also forage for seeds, but begin to hunt small rodents as well. Talonflame are primarily hunters that go after smaller Pokémon like Wingull and Pikipek. They must eat often to fuel their flight.","Fletchling eat small insects and seeds. Fletchinder continue to catch insects and occasionally also forage for seeds, but begin to hunt small rodents as well. Talonflame are primarily hunters that go after smaller Pokémon like Wingull and Pikipek. They must eat often to fuel their flight.","Fletchling eat small insects and seeds. Fletchinder continue to catch insects and occasionally also forage for seeds, but begin to hunt small rodents as well. Talonflame are primarily hunters that go after smaller Pokémon like Wingull and Pikipek. They must eat often to fuel their flight.","Scatterbug and Spewpa consume the leaves of plants; they are not picky eaters and will try to eat practically any kind of leaves. Spewpa do not eat much, however, as they prepare for evolution. Vivillon gather nectar from flowers and drink clean water for sustenance.","Scatterbug and Spewpa consume the leaves of plants; they are not picky eaters and will try to eat practically any kind of leaves. Spewpa do not eat much, however, as they prepare for evolution. Vivillon gather nectar from flowers and drink clean water for sustenance.","Scatterbug and Spewpa consume the leaves of plants; they are not picky eaters and will try to eat practically any kind of leaves. Spewpa do not eat much, however, as they prepare for evolution. Vivillon gather nectar from flowers and drink clean water for sustenance.","These Pokémon are carnivores. Male Pyroar hunt for their entire prides, dragging back the carcasses of large mammals for their whole groups to share. Hunting males will work together to take down prey larger than themselves.","These Pokémon are carnivores. Male Pyroar hunt for their entire prides, dragging back the carcasses of large mammals for their whole groups to share. Hunting males will work together to take down prey larger than themselves.","These Pokémon do not eat in the traditional sense, as they draw all of the energy that they need from flowers. This does mean that they have to care for these blooms, however, with enough water, sunlight, and nutrients from the soil.","These Pokémon do not eat in the traditional sense, as they draw all of the energy that they need from flowers. This does mean that they have to care for these blooms, however, with enough water, sunlight, and nutrients from the soil.","These Pokémon do not eat in the traditional sense, as they draw all of the energy that they need from flowers. This does mean that they have to care for these blooms, however, with enough water, sunlight, and nutrients from the soil.","Both Skiddo and Gogoat can obtain all of the energy that they need to survive through photosynthesis using the leaves growing on their bodies. In poor weather, they can also graze on grasses for sustenance.","Both Skiddo and Gogoat can obtain all of the energy that they need to survive through photosynthesis using the leaves growing on their bodies. In poor weather, they can also graze on grasses for sustenance.","Both of these Pokémon are herbivorous; in fact, they exclusively consume bamboo and nothing else. They can often be seen holding bamboo leaves or twigs in their mouths even when they are not eating.","Both of these Pokémon are herbivorous; in fact, they exclusively consume bamboo and nothing else. They can often be seen holding bamboo leaves or twigs in their mouths even when they are not eating.","Although popular culture often portrays Furfrou as picky eaters, they are content consuming a diet of primarily meat just as any other canine. Studies show that Furfrou actually have little to no preference for “gourmet” food brands marketed specifically towards them.","Espurr are strictly herbivorous. they dislike being around other creatures, even for the purposes of hunting; thus, they will only eat Berries and fruits. Meowstic are omnivorous and use their psychic powers to hunt rodents.","Espurr are strictly herbivorous. they dislike being around other creatures, even for the purposes of hunting; thus, they will only eat Berries and fruits. Meowstic are omnivorous and use their psychic powers to hunt rodents.","All members of this line drain the life energy of other living beings by wrapping their tassels around their limbs. They specifically will seek out those that show signs of leadership, but are careful to not drain so much energy from their hosts as to render them feeble.","All members of this line drain the life energy of other living beings by wrapping their tassels around their limbs. They specifically will seek out those that show signs of leadership, but are careful to not drain so much energy from their hosts as to render them feeble.","All members of this line drain the life energy of other living beings by wrapping their tassels around their limbs. They specifically will seek out those that show signs of leadership, but are careful to not drain so much energy from their hosts as to render them feeble.","These Pokémon will eat practically anything that has a strong odor regardless of nutritional value, whether it is pleasant or disgusting. This includes things like Berries, fruits, and nectar, but also garbage, insects, and carrion.","These Pokémon will eat practically anything that has a strong odor regardless of nutritional value, whether it is pleasant or disgusting. This includes things like Berries, fruits, and nectar, but also garbage, insects, and carrion.","Both Swirlix and Slurpuff absolutely love anything sweet; they will even eat pure sugar cubes if given the opportunity. Wild individuals feast on sweet Berries like Pecha and Mago Berries, fruits, and nectar. Trained ones enjoy sugary cookies, cakes, and candies.","Both Swirlix and Slurpuff absolutely love anything sweet; they will even eat pure sugar cubes if given the opportunity. Wild individuals feast on sweet Berries like Pecha and Mago Berries, fruits, and nectar. Trained ones enjoy sugary cookies, cakes, and candies.","Inkay and Malamar hunt fish and crustaceans near the ocean shore. They utilize their manipulative abilities to immobilize their prey before approaching; Malamar will spew stomach acids onto their victims before consuming them.","Inkay and Malamar hunt fish and crustaceans near the ocean shore. They utilize their manipulative abilities to immobilize their prey before approaching; Malamar will spew stomach acids onto their victims before consuming them.","Binacle feed on seaweed and algae that wash up on beaches or grow in tidal pools. When they evolve, they become omnivorous; Barbaracle continue to eat seaweed, but will also hunt fish and other crustaceans as well.","Binacle feed on seaweed and algae that wash up on beaches or grow in tidal pools. When they evolve, they become omnivorous; Barbaracle continue to eat seaweed, but will also hunt fish and other crustaceans as well.","Skrelp feed primarily on rotting seaweed and hunt occasionally, while Dragalge are primarily carnivorous. They will ambush fish, crustaceans, and mollusks that swim too close to the weeds that cloak them, incapacitating them with poison so they cannot escape.","Skrelp feed primarily on rotting seaweed and hunt occasionally, while Dragalge are primarily carnivorous. They will ambush fish, crustaceans, and mollusks that swim too close to the weeds that cloak them, incapacitating them with poison so they cannot escape.","These Pokémon primarily hunt fish. They will fire bullets (in the case of Clauncher) or cannonball-like blasts (in the case of Clawitzer) to take down prey, or stun them with the light and sound emitted by the cavitation bubbles they produce so they can try again.","These Pokémon primarily hunt fish. They will fire bullets (in the case of Clauncher) or cannonball-like blasts (in the case of Clawitzer) to take down prey, or stun them with the light and sound emitted by the cavitation bubbles they produce so they can try again.","Unusually for non-Grass-types, these Pokémon can obtain all of the energy they need for survival through photosynthesis (though it functions a bit differently than in other organisms). They may also eat insects and plants in cloudy weather to tide themselves over.","Unusually for non-Grass-types, these Pokémon can obtain all of the energy they need for survival through photosynthesis (though it functions a bit differently than in other organisms). They may also eat insects and plants in cloudy weather to tide themselves over.","Tyrantrum are apex predators, hunting anything that they pleased in their prehistoric domains. Tyrunt are entirely helpless on their own; they wait for their parents to bring back food, but will throw massive tantrums if they dislike what they receive.","Tyrantrum are apex predators, hunting anything that they pleased in their prehistoric domains. Tyrunt are entirely helpless on their own; they wait for their parents to bring back food, but will throw massive tantrums if they dislike what they receive.","Both of these Pokémon are herbivorous. They graze on the moss and lichens that carpet frozen tundras as well as the low-growing plants that sprout during the scant sunlight. They have adapted to store large amounts of fat to help them survive long, bitter winters.","Both of these Pokémon are herbivorous. They graze on the moss and lichens that carpet frozen tundras as well as the low-growing plants that sprout during the scant sunlight. They have adapted to store large amounts of fat to help them survive long, bitter winters.","All members of the Eevee line are omnivores but Leafeon, who are herbivores. Vaporeon hunt fish, while Espeon and Umbreon go after rodents. The remaining evolutions catch small mammals, with Sylveon also supplementing their diets with insects. Glaceon also forage for lichens.","Hawlucha hunt small rodents and other mammals, which they ambush from high up above. They will wait patiently in the treetops for unwary prey to wander by before leaping down to glide and take down their victims.","Dedenne will subsist entirely on electricity if they are able to, generally from power outlets and generators. In the wild, however, where this is rarely ever possible, they will also forage for seeds, nuts, and acorns.","Carbink do not appear to eat or drink anything at all, even if they have just been awoken after millennium-long periods of dormancy.","All members of this line are herbivorous, feeding on aquatic plants and algae. They may also venture onto land at the banks of their swamps and marshes to eat the leaves of terrestrial plants at the water’s edge.","All members of this line are herbivorous, feeding on aquatic plants and algae. They may also venture onto land at the banks of their swamps and marshes to eat the leaves of terrestrial plants at the water’s edge.","All members of this line are herbivorous, feeding on aquatic plants and algae. They may also venture onto land at the banks of their swamps and marshes to eat the leaves of terrestrial plants at the water’s edge.","Klefki insert their key-like horns into keyholes to absorb metal ions from locks. They will often feed while on the lookout for new keys to add to their collections.","Both Phantump and Trevenant are able to photosynthesize all of the energy that they need for survival with sunlight and water. They have adapted to run on the low light levels and inconsistent sun flecks that break through dense tree leaves.","Both Phantump and Trevenant are able to photosynthesize all of the energy that they need for survival with sunlight and water. They have adapted to run on the low light levels and inconsistent sun flecks that break through dense tree leaves.","Pumpkaboo catch small insects and rodents that also become active once the sun sets. Gourgeist will additionally chase after larger mammals, wrapping them in their hairlike arms and draining their life force. Bigger individuals will naturally pursue bigger prey.","Pumpkaboo catch small insects and rodents that also become active once the sun sets. Gourgeist will additionally chase after larger mammals, wrapping them in their hairlike arms and draining their life force. Bigger individuals will naturally pursue bigger prey.","These Pokémon do not to eat like organic species; instead, they periodically drink pure water or eat snow and ice in order to sustain their own bodies.","These Pokémon do not to eat like organic species; instead, they periodically drink pure water or eat snow and ice in order to sustain their own bodies.","Noibat are primarily insectivores and fructivores, using their sonar to detect and catch insects within their caves as well as identify down ripe fruit. Noivern are omnivorous; they will hunt mammals as well as forage for fruit. They especially seem to enjoy Persim Berries.","Noibat are primarily insectivores and fructivores, using their sonar to detect and catch insects within their caves as well as identify down ripe fruit. Noivern are omnivorous; they will hunt mammals as well as forage for fruit. They especially seem to enjoy Persim Berries.","","","","","","","All members of this line hunt live prey. These nocturnal predators use their razor-sharp feathers to shoot down insects, rodents, and small mammals. Alolan Rattata are a common source of prey for this species.","All members of this line hunt live prey. These nocturnal predators use their razor-sharp feathers to shoot down insects, rodents, and small mammals. Alolan Rattata are a common source of prey for this species.","All members of this line hunt live prey. These nocturnal predators use their razor-sharp feathers to shoot down insects, rodents, and small mammals. Alolan Rattata are a common source of prey for this species.","These Pokémon are carnivores, serving as apex predators in their habitats. Unlike some other big cats, all members of this line hunt solitarily. They primarily go after larger mammals like Drowzee as prey.","These Pokémon are carnivores, serving as apex predators in their habitats. Unlike some other big cats, all members of this line hunt solitarily. They primarily go after larger mammals like Drowzee as prey.","These Pokémon are carnivores, serving as apex predators in their habitats. Unlike some other big cats, all members of this line hunt solitarily. They primarily go after larger mammals like Drowzee as prey.","All members of this family are piscivorous, primarily hunting fish and shellfish. Colonies of these Pokémon will swim in unison to herd schools of prey; their movements are said to resemble dancing set to an orchestral symphony.","All members of this family are piscivorous, primarily hunting fish and shellfish. Colonies of these Pokémon will swim in unison to herd schools of prey; their movements are said to resemble dancing set to an orchestral symphony.","All members of this family are piscivorous, primarily hunting fish and shellfish. Colonies of these Pokémon will swim in unison to herd schools of prey; their movements are said to resemble dancing set to an orchestral symphony.","Pikipek forage for seeds from fruits; though they can open harder ones, they do not bother with the effort. Trumbeak and Toucannon crack open tougher fruits and Berries for seeds, but Toucannon also enjoy softer ones whole. Their strong beaks make them ideal predators of Bounsweet.","Pikipek forage for seeds from fruits; though they can open harder ones, they do not bother with the effort. Trumbeak and Toucannon crack open tougher fruits and Berries for seeds, but Toucannon also enjoy softer ones whole. Their strong beaks make them ideal predators of Bounsweet.","Pikipek forage for seeds from fruits; though they can open harder ones, they do not bother with the effort. Trumbeak and Toucannon crack open tougher fruits and Berries for seeds, but Toucannon also enjoy softer ones whole. Their strong beaks make them ideal predators of Bounsweet."," Both of these Pokémon naturally hunt Rattata and Raticate, with Alolan populations having developed a preference for Alolan variants. They are indiscriminate hunters that will prey upon nearly any small rodent, bird, or egg they can find."," Both of these Pokémon naturally hunt Rattata and Raticate, with Alolan populations having developed a preference for Alolan variants. They are indiscriminate hunters that will prey upon nearly any small rodent, bird, or egg they can find.","All members of this line enjoy feeding on electricty directly from power sources, though this is rarely available in the wild. Grubbin scrape bark to feed on tree sap while Charjabug eat both live and decaying plant matter. Predatory Vikavolt hunt small mammals and other insects, though they still enjoy sap.","All members of this line enjoy feeding on electricty directly from power sources, though this is rarely available in the wild. Grubbin scrape bark to feed on tree sap while Charjabug eat both live and decaying plant matter. Predatory Vikavolt hunt small mammals and other insects, though they still enjoy sap.","All members of this line enjoy feeding on electricty directly from power sources, though this is rarely available in the wild. Grubbin scrape bark to feed on tree sap while Charjabug eat both live and decaying plant matter. Predatory Vikavolt hunt small mammals and other insects, though they still enjoy sap.","Crabrawler feed exclusively on Berries, knocking them down with their pincers so that they fall to the ground below. Crabominable punch through layers of permafrost to reach lichens and moss in the soil below.","Crabrawler feed exclusively on Berries, knocking them down with their pincers so that they fall to the ground below. Crabominable punch through layers of permafrost to reach lichens and moss in the soil below.","All forms Oricorio sip nectar from flowers endemic to Alola. Different Styles prefer the blooms native to their own island, but they will consume the nectar of other flowers if there are no other options available (and changing forms as a result). ","Both Cutiefly and Ribombee consume flower nectar and pollen. Ribombee fashion Pollen Puffs by combining these two substances with their saliva, sometimes enhancing them with various plant extracts. Contrary to popular belief, Cutiefly do not feed on aura; they are simply attracted to it.","Both Cutiefly and Ribombee consume flower nectar and pollen. Ribombee fashion Pollen Puffs by combining these two substances with their saliva, sometimes enhancing them with various plant extracts. Contrary to popular belief, Cutiefly do not feed on aura; they are simply attracted to it.","Rockruff and Lycanroc are carnivorous. Rockruff hunt small mammals. Midday Form Lycanroc are proactive hunters that separate prey from their packs and chase them down; Midnight Form Lycanroc pursue weakened individuals and let them tire themselves out before finishing them off.","Rockruff and Lycanroc are carnivorous. Rockruff hunt small mammals. Midday Form Lycanroc are proactive hunters that separate prey from their packs and chase them down; Midnight Form Lycanroc pursue weakened individuals and let them tire themselves out before finishing them off.","Despite the monstrous sizes of their School Forms, Wishiwashi can only feed efficiently in their tiny Solo Forms. They exclusively eat plankton, filtering water through their gills to collect and extract it.","Both of these Pokémon feed exclusively on Corsola horns (though a few populations, such as that of Galar, have been known to prey on fish species in their stead). Though they have no preference between discarded horns and fresh ones, Toxapex have been recorded keeping Corsola alive after feeding so they can grow more horns for them to feed on later.","Both of these Pokémon feed exclusively on Corsola horns (though a few populations, such as that of Galar, have been known to prey on fish species in their stead). Though they have no preference between discarded horns and fresh ones, Toxapex have been recorded keeping Corsola alive after feeding so they can grow more horns for them to feed on later.","Both of these Pokémon primarily graze on grasses and low-growing plants that thrive near water, as these Pokémon spend much of their time in wet mud. They will also eat mud itself from time to time; scientists believe that this may somehow aid their digestion.","Both of these Pokémon primarily graze on grasses and low-growing plants that thrive near water, as these Pokémon spend much of their time in wet mud. They will also eat mud itself from time to time; scientists believe that this may somehow aid their digestion.","Dewpider primarily hunt tiny, terrestrial insects, which they headbutt to knock out and drown with their water bubbles. Araquanid do the same with larger mammals and insects; they are even known to occasionally go after birds if they can successfully ambush them.","Dewpider primarily hunt tiny, terrestrial insects, which they headbutt to knock out and drown with their water bubbles. Araquanid do the same with larger mammals and insects; they are even known to occasionally go after birds if they can successfully ambush them.","Fomantis exclusively rely on sunlight to photosynthesize energy. Lurantis remain able to photosynthesize, but they derive the bulk of their energy by luring in insects, mammals, and even birds before slicing them with their sharp sickles.","Fomantis exclusively rely on sunlight to photosynthesize energy. Lurantis remain able to photosynthesize, but they derive the bulk of their energy by luring in insects, mammals, and even birds before slicing them with their sharp sickles.","Morelull use their mycelium to draw nutrients and moisture from the soil. Shiinotic, on the other hand, drain energy directly from other living or once-living things; they will root their mycelium in decaying matter as well as disoriented living prey.","Morelull use their mycelium to draw nutrients and moisture from the soil. Shiinotic, on the other hand, drain energy directly from other living or once-living things; they will root their mycelium in decaying matter as well as disoriented living prey.","Both of these Pokémon are primarily insectivorous. Flying insects are lured near them by the sweet smell of their poisonous fumes, often flying straight into clouds of it before eventually dropping to the ground.","Both of these Pokémon are primarily insectivorous. Flying insects are lured near them by the sweet smell of their poisonous fumes, often flying straight into clouds of it before eventually dropping to the ground.","Stufful usually feed on Berries, but they are opportunistic and will dig through trash in urban areas in search of food. Bewear stay within their forests, collecting Berries by knocking down trees, Honey by destroying Vespiquen nests, and Pollen Puffs by demolishing Ribombee hollows. Bewear will also hunt prey of any size for meat.","Stufful usually feed on Berries, but they are opportunistic and will dig through trash in urban areas in search of food. Bewear stay within their forests, collecting Berries by knocking down trees, Honey by destroying Vespiquen nests, and Pollen Puffs by demolishing Ribombee hollows. Bewear will also hunt prey of any size for meat.","Bounsweet actually do not need to eat at all; they are born with all of the nutrients they need to survive until evolution (hence why they are so nutrient-rich and popular as prey). Both Steenee and Tsareena can photosynthesize energy using their calyxes.","Bounsweet actually do not need to eat at all; they are born with all of the nutrients they need to survive until evolution (hence why they are so nutrient-rich and popular as prey). Both Steenee and Tsareena can photosynthesize energy using their calyxes.","Bounsweet actually do not need to eat at all; they are born with all of the nutrients they need to survive until evolution (hence why they are so nutrient-rich and popular as prey). Both Steenee and Tsareena can photosynthesize energy using their calyxes.","Comfey draw their energy entirely from flowers. They salvage resources from dead or dying blooms and redistribute it to healthy flowers as well as to themselves. Though Comfey possess chloroplasts, they cannot photosynthesize as these plastids are seemingly vestigial.","Fruits and Berries compose much of an Oranguru’s diet. However, they will also consumes leaves, shoots, and insects as well. Oranguru are known to consume herbs for flavoring as well as medicinal purposes.","Passimian exclusively subsist on a diet of Berries. They must eat a lot in order to have enough energy to make it through their intense training session. Though Berries are usually low in protein, studies show that they seem to prefer those with higher protein contents, like Aguav Berries.","Wimpod are opportunistic scavengers. They will consume both organic and inorganic materials and thrive in places where humans often litter (though they will not venture out while people are around). Golisopod sometimes eat waste, but usually subsist on kelp and algae. If they take down an opponent in combat, though, they will not let the carcass go to waste, either.","Wimpod are opportunistic scavengers. They will consume both organic and inorganic materials and thrive in places where humans often litter (though they will not venture out while people are around). Golisopod sometimes eat waste, but usually subsist on kelp and algae. If they take down an opponent in combat, though, they will not let the carcass go to waste, either.","Though Sandygast can siphon life force from those foolish enough to stick their appendages into their mouths, they usually make do with small creatures that wander into these openings by accident. Palossand can create whirlpools of sand to suck down and suffocate larger beings.","Though Sandygast can siphon life force from those foolish enough to stick their appendages into their mouths, they usually make do with small creatures that wander into these openings by accident. Palossand can create whirlpools of sand to suck down and suffocate larger beings.","Pyukumuku feed on detritus, algae, and small invertebrates. They expel their own guts over they meals to digest them externally before sucking everything back in, using their appendage-like innards to pull in their food.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, befitting their chimeric compositions. Aether President Gladion once stated in an interview that he had to modify his Type: Null’s helmet so it could eat, as it was not designed in a way that would allow for it initially.","These Pokémon are omnivorous, befitting their chimeric compositions. Aether President Gladion once stated in an interview that he had to modify his Type: Null’s helmet so it could eat, as it was not designed in a way that would allow for it initially.","Minior eat dust and debris found floating high up in the stratosphere. The composition of the particles that they consume determines the color of their cores.","Komala exclusively eat the leaves of specific trees native to the tropics, such as those of eucalyptus trees. They only have to eat a few leaves a day, as they conserve vast amounts of energy by remaining perpetually in slumber.","Turtonator consume large amounts of sulfuric compounds, both in gaseous and solid forms; they will also eat other minerals to form their volatile compounds. They are not picky hunters and will consume practically any prey they can catch, inorganic or organic.","Togedemaru are herbivorous. They eat seeds, leaves, nuts, and Berries. These Pokémon also harness electricity from thunderstorms to store in their electrical sacs.","Scientists believe that Mimikyu feed on the emotions of others, as similar Ghost-types like Mismagius do the same. Wild Mimikyu will eat Berries like Pikachu when observed by people, but they do not seem to do the same if they are unaware that they are being watched.","Bruxish seem to specialize in preying upon hard-shelled aquatic invertebrates. Pokémon like Shellder and Clauncher make up the bulk of their diets, as their powerful teeth can make short work of their defenses. They also have a strong affinity for Mareanie and their spikes.","Drampa exclusively eat Berries. Though they gather all kinds of Berries, they seem to prefer dryer and more astringent varieties. They save sweet and juicy ones as gifts to bring to children when they visit towns.","Dhelmise add seaweed and other detritus found floating about in the sea to their bodies. They seem to prefer kelp that has been adrift for quite some time over fresh algae for reasons unknown. They siphon life force from prey tangled in their kelp, and seem to prefer larger victims like Wailord.","All members of this family are omnivorous. They are not picky eaters, as food is scarce where they dwell. They hunt smaller mammals, birds, and reptiles for meat and salvage what few leaves and Berries they can find for plant matter.","All members of this family are omnivorous. They are not picky eaters, as food is scarce where they dwell. They hunt smaller mammals, birds, and reptiles for meat and salvage what few leaves and Berries they can find for plant matter.","All members of this family are omnivorous. They are not picky eaters, as food is scarce where they dwell. They hunt smaller mammals, birds, and reptiles for meat and salvage what few leaves and Berries they can find for plant matter.","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","","These Pokémon can in fact subsist entirely on sunlight by photosynthesizing energy through their green fur. In cloudier weather they will also eat fruits, nuts, and Berries to tide them over until the sun begins shining again.","These Pokémon can in fact subsist entirely on sunlight by photosynthesizing energy through their green fur. In cloudier weather they will also eat fruits, nuts, and Berries to tide them over until the sun begins shining again.","These Pokémon can in fact subsist entirely on sunlight by photosynthesizing energy through their green fur. In cloudier weather they will also eat fruits, nuts, and Berries to tide them over until the sun begins shining again.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, eating grasses, shoots, and other plant material. They can jump to knock Berries out of tall trees and will roast harder ones with fire before eating. They have a particular penchant for round and hard Aspear Berries.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, eating grasses, shoots, and other plant material. They can jump to knock Berries out of tall trees and will roast harder ones with fire before eating. They have a particular penchant for round and hard Aspear Berries.","These Pokémon are herbivorous, eating grasses, shoots, and other plant material. They can jump to knock Berries out of tall trees and will roast harder ones with fire before eating. They have a particular penchant for round and hard Aspear Berries.","All members of this family are insectivorous. Sobble use the vapors from their tears to incapacitate insects, while Drizzile and Inteleon can snipe them out of the air with sharp blasts of water or with their sticky tongues.","All members of this family are insectivorous. Sobble use the vapors from their tears to incapacitate insects, while Drizzile and Inteleon can snipe them out of the air with sharp blasts of water or with their sticky tongues.","All members of this family are insectivorous. Sobble use the vapors from their tears to incapacitate insects, while Drizzile and Inteleon can snipe them out of the air with sharp blasts of water or with their sticky tongues.","These Pokémon eat Berries, and do so constantly at that. They have no strong preferences and have been observed consuming all types known to science, even when they are unripe or beginning to turn rotten.","These Pokémon eat Berries, and do so constantly at that. They have no strong preferences and have been observed consuming all types known to science, even when they are unripe or beginning to turn rotten.","All members of this family are omnivorous. Rookidee and Corvisquire primarily feed on nuts, seeds, Berries, and small invertebrates. Corviknight will hunt mammals, reptiles and even other, smaller bird Pokémon in addition to foraging.","All members of this family are omnivorous. Rookidee and Corvisquire primarily feed on nuts, seeds, Berries, and small invertebrates. Corviknight will hunt mammals, reptiles and even other, smaller bird Pokémon in addition to foraging.","All members of this family are omnivorous. Rookidee and Corvisquire primarily feed on nuts, seeds, Berries, and small invertebrates. Corviknight will hunt mammals, reptiles and even other, smaller bird Pokémon in addition to foraging.","Blipbug and herbivorous, feeding solely on the leaves of low-growing plants. Dottler do not eat at all as they fast in preparation for evolution. Orbeetle are omnivorous, feeding on both plant matter as well as smaller invertebrates.","Blipbug and herbivorous, feeding solely on the leaves of low-growing plants. Dottler do not eat at all as they fast in preparation for evolution. Orbeetle are omnivorous, feeding on both plant matter as well as smaller invertebrates.","Blipbug and herbivorous, feeding solely on the leaves of low-growing plants. Dottler do not eat at all as they fast in preparation for evolution. Orbeetle are omnivorous, feeding on both plant matter as well as smaller invertebrates.","The main danger these Pokémon pose is through their discreet thievery rather than direct conflict. In areas where these Pokémon dwell, it is imperative to keep one's belongings locked up tight. They can sneak into unzipped tents in the dead of night without waking the occupants, so simply keeping things near one's person is not sufficient. If a Pokémon with a good sense of smell begins to act unusual, keep an eye out; a Thievul may be marking easy targets with its scent somewhere nearby.","The main danger these Pokémon pose is through their discreet thievery rather than direct conflict. In areas where these Pokémon dwell, it is imperative to keep one's belongings locked up tight. They can sneak into unzipped tents in the dead of night without waking the occupants, so simply keeping things near one's person is not sufficient. If a Pokémon with a good sense of smell begins to act unusual, keep an eye out; a Thievul may be marking easy targets with its scent somewhere nearby.","These light Pokémon enjoy floating in the breeze, but can be blown away during strong gales. In normal conditions, however, they can control their drifting by adjusting their leaves. Unsurprisingly, they dislike being confined indoors. They are also intolerant of pollution and thus will not do well in urban environments. However, as long as they have fresh water and air, they are quite easy to raise due to their easygoing natures and ability to photosynthesize all of the energy they need.","These light Pokémon enjoy floating in the breeze, but can be blown away during strong gales. In normal conditions, however, they can control their drifting by adjusting their leaves. Unsurprisingly, they dislike being confined indoors. They are also intolerant of pollution and thus will not do well in urban environments. However, as long as they have fresh water and air, they are quite easy to raise due to their easygoing natures and ability to photosynthesize all of the energy they need.","These Pokémon are both grazers. As ruminants, they can digest tough plant fibers that other Pokémon may have issue with. Indeed, Wooloo and Dubwool seem to be particularly hardy eaters even when compared to other grazing species.","These Pokémon are both grazers. As ruminants, they can digest tough plant fibers that other Pokémon may have issue with. Indeed, Wooloo and Dubwool seem to be particularly hardy eaters even when compared to other grazing species.","Both evolutions are carnivorous. They will eat pretty much anything they can chomp down on. This primarily means fish and mollusks for Chewtle. Drednaw, however, will hunt for extended periods of time on land, chasing down mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and even unlucky avians.","Both evolutions are carnivorous. They will eat pretty much anything they can chomp down on. This primarily means fish and mollusks for Chewtle. Drednaw, however, will hunt for extended periods of time on land, chasing down mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and even unlucky avians.","These Pokémon are carnivores, hunting down rodents and smaller mammals. Yamper seem to love Pokémon treats even more than the average Pokémon. Tamato Berries are poisonous to these Pokémon.","These Pokémon are carnivores, hunting down rodents and smaller mammals. Yamper seem to love Pokémon treats even more than the average Pokémon. Tamato Berries are poisonous to these Pokémon.","Rolycoly exclusively eat coal and nothing else. Both Carkol and Coalossal will consume plant matter and minerals from other rocks in order to synthesize coal within their own bodies; Due to the higher-quality coal they make, Coalossal must consume more material in order to produce a similar amount of coal as Carkol.","Rolycoly exclusively eat coal and nothing else. Both Carkol and Coalossal will consume plant matter and minerals from other rocks in order to synthesize coal within their own bodies; Due to the higher-quality coal they make, Coalossal must consume more material in order to produce a similar amount of coal as Carkol.","Rolycoly exclusively eat coal and nothing else. Both Carkol and Coalossal will consume plant matter and minerals from other rocks in order to synthesize coal within their own bodies; Due to the higher-quality coal they make, Coalossal must consume more material in order to produce a similar amount of coal as Carkol.","Applin don't need to eat, as their apples will provide all the nutrients they require until evolution. Both Flapple and Appletun are insectivorous. Neither are active hunters, however, and will wait for food to come to them.","Applin don't need to eat, as their apples will provide all the nutrients they require until evolution. Both Flapple and Appletun are insectivorous. Neither are active hunters, however, and will wait for food to come to them.","Applin don't need to eat, as their apples will provide all the nutrients they require until evolution. Both Flapple and Appletun are insectivorous. Neither are active hunters, however, and will wait for food to come to them.","Both Pokémon are carnivorous ambush hunters. They lie in wait in the dunes for unsuspecting prey to pass by before blinding them with shots of sand. Sandaconda constrict their prey to immobilize them. Both evolutions swallow their prey whole.","Both Pokémon are carnivorous ambush hunters. They lie in wait in the dunes for unsuspecting prey to pass by before blinding them with shots of sand. Sandaconda constrict their prey to immobilize them. Both evolutions swallow their prey whole.","Cramorant love fish Pokémon, and have a particular preference for Arrokuda. However, they are not picky and will try to eat just about anything that they deem edible—in other words, essentially anything that moves and can fit into their mouths.","Both evolutions are hardy creatures that can tolerate varying water salinities and pollution levels. Neither should be kept in standard glass tanks, however, as their sharp jaws can shatter them with ease. Reinforced glass is recommended for housing them. Naturally, due to their hostile natures, they should not be kept with any other species except the hardiest (and immobile) bivalves.","Both evolutions are hardy creatures that can tolerate varying water salinities and pollution levels. Neither should be kept in standard glass tanks, however, as their sharp jaws can shatter them with ease. Reinforced glass is recommended for housing them. Naturally, due to their hostile natures, they should not be kept with any other species except the hardiest (and immobile) bivalves.","Both Pokémon are generalist hunters that will prey on anything they can catch. Sizzlipede usually settle for invertebrates and occasionally small birds and mammals, while Centiskorch will go after nearly anything that isn't a hardy Rock-type.","Both Pokémon are generalist hunters that will prey on anything they can catch. Sizzlipede usually settle for invertebrates and occasionally small birds and mammals, while Centiskorch will go after nearly anything that isn't a hardy Rock-type.","Toxel primarily eat insects and small rodents that wander too close and become immobilized by their touch. Toxtricity are hunters with diverse diets. All sorts of birds, mammals, and reptiles all are fair game for these Pokémon.","Toxel primarily eat insects and small rodents that wander too close and become immobilized by their touch. Toxtricity are hunters with diverse diets. All sorts of birds, mammals, and reptiles all are fair game for these Pokémon.","Both Clobbopus and Grapploct are hunters, venturing onto land in search of prey. Small mammals and even birds seem to be their preferred meals, but they will happily settle for mollusks and fish as well. Grapploct have a particular penchant for Golisopod, who are both worthy (if unwilling) opponents as well as fine meals.","Both Clobbopus and Grapploct are hunters, venturing onto land in search of prey. Small mammals and even birds seem to be their preferred meals, but they will happily settle for mollusks and fish as well. Grapploct have a particular penchant for Golisopod, who are both worthy (if unwilling) opponents as well as fine meals.","Both Sinistea and Polteageist consume life force as their primary means of sustenance. Ironically, Sinistea must be imbibed first in order to consume life force from within their predator-turned-prey. Polteageist can instead envelop victims in their tea to drain life from them. Sinistea and Polteageist unsurprisingly also have a strong affinity for black tea.","Both Sinistea and Polteageist consume life force as their primary means of sustenance. Ironically, Sinistea must be imbibed first in order to consume life force from within their predator-turned-prey. Polteageist can instead envelop victims in their tea to drain life from them. Sinistea and Polteageist unsurprisingly also have a strong affinity for black tea.","All evolutions are herbivorous. Hattrem and Hatterene are known to concoct \"brews\" of Berry juices and other ingredients that bestow a variety of effects on the drinker. Such concoctions are a favorite of young Hatenna as well.","All evolutions are herbivorous. Hattrem and Hatterene are known to concoct \"brews\" of Berry juices and other ingredients that bestow a variety of effects on the drinker. Such concoctions are a favorite of young Hatenna as well.","All evolutions are herbivorous. Hattrem and Hatterene are known to concoct \"brews\" of Berry juices and other ingredients that bestow a variety of effects on the drinker. Such concoctions are a favorite of young Hatenna as well.","These Pokémon feast upon negative emotions. They especially relish feelings of annoyance, frustration, and despair. Unlike some other Pokémon that feed like this, they do not seem to care much for fear.","These Pokémon feast upon negative emotions. They especially relish feelings of annoyance, frustration, and despair. Unlike some other Pokémon that feed like this, they do not seem to care much for fear.","These Pokémon feast upon negative emotions. They especially relish feelings of annoyance, frustration, and despair. Unlike some other Pokémon that feed like this, they do not seem to care much for fear.","Zigzagoon are omnivorous eaters. They will forage for plant shoots, mushrooms, and Berries--especially Oran Berries--in the wild, and dig through trash in urban areas. Linoone are hunters of small prey, but also continue to enjoy Oran as well as Sitrus Berries.","Both Meowth and Persian are hunters. They will go after small rodents like Rattata and Pichu, often toying with their prey before killing them. They are also known to catch newly-hatched Pidgey from their nests.","Corsola horns are actually porous. These Pokémon filter water through them like sieves, feeding on tiny plankton that they catch in the process.","Farfetch’d are omnivores. Though they primarily feed on algae, weeds, and seeds, they also will catch small insects and other invertebrates, such as worms. In lean times, they will even eat their own stalks, though they will immediately search for new ones afterwards.","Both Pokémon eat like people do. In the wild, they will forage for nuts and Berries, but are also known to set invisible traps to catch unwary prey (and sometimes accidentally small children as well). Like children, Mime Jr. particularly enjoy sweets and will dig through trash to find candy.","Scientists aren’t quite sure exactly what Yamask eat; they are attracted to human food, however, hovering over it without actually eating any. Cofagrigus consume pure gold to reinforce their own bodies.","Both Pokémon love sugar and cream. Naturally, this means they adore baked pastries and desserts, but these items are not readily available outside of human settlements. In the wild, they will instead drink nectar and eat all varieties of Berries to obtain their sugar fixes.","Both Pokémon love sugar and cream. Naturally, this means they adore baked pastries and desserts, but these items are not readily available outside of human settlements. In the wild, they will instead drink nectar and eat all varieties of Berries to obtain their sugar fixes.","Falinks are omnivorous. They will work together in formation to harvest Berries and seeds as well as hunt small vertebrates. They are austere when it comes to diet and only eat the bare minimum to fuel themselves.","","Snom eat nothing but snow, using it to grow their icy spikes as they prepare for evolution. Frosmoth are herbivorous and feed on the sparse vegetation that grow in icy areas. They will also eat pure ice from time to time, perhaps to supplement their own abilities.","Snom eat nothing but snow, using it to grow their icy spikes as they prepare for evolution. Frosmoth are herbivorous and feed on the sparse vegetation that grow in icy areas. They will also eat pure ice from time to time, perhaps to supplement their own abilities.","Stonjourner do not need to eat. Some scientists have hypothesized that they may gain some sort of sustenance from sunlight or perhaps even the soil they stand upon, but rigorous experiments have proven this false.","Eiscue are exclusively piscivores. They dangle their sensitive hairs into the water in order to attract fish.","Indeedee feed on positive emotions, especially focusing on relief and gratitude. They will usually extract these feelings as payment in exchange for performed services.","Morpeko are herbivorous, stuffing seeds and nuts into their cheek sacs to roast with electricity. Hangry Mode Morpeko will become considerably less picky if in this mode for too long; they have been observed eating garbage, rocks, and even raw meat to satiate themselves when in this state.","Both of these Pokémon primarily consume copper ore in order to maintain their bodies. They have also been observed eating other minerals, perhaps to create alloys and strengthen themselves.","Both of these Pokémon primarily consume copper ore in order to maintain their bodies. They have also been observed eating other minerals, perhaps to create alloys and strengthen themselves.","These Pokémon have desires to eat certain foods based on their upper halves, but experience indigestion of others based on their lower halves. Dracozolt and Arctozolt both enjoy seeds and nuts, but Arctozolt cannot digest them; invertebrates are a happy medium that satisfies both halves. Dracovish and Arctovish can digest fish, which luckily for them is acceptable for their lower halves as well.","These Pokémon have desires to eat certain foods based on their upper halves, but experience indigestion of others based on their lower halves. Dracozolt and Arctozolt both enjoy seeds and nuts, but Arctozolt cannot digest them; invertebrates are a happy medium that satisfies both halves. Dracovish and Arctovish can digest fish, which luckily for them is acceptable for their lower halves as well.","These Pokémon have desires to eat certain foods based on their upper halves, but experience indigestion of others based on their lower halves. Dracozolt and Arctozolt both enjoy seeds and nuts, but Arctozolt cannot digest them; invertebrates are a happy medium that satisfies both halves. Dracovish and Arctovish can digest fish, which luckily for them is acceptable for their lower halves as well.","These Pokémon have desires to eat certain foods based on their upper halves, but experience indigestion of others based on their lower halves. Dracozolt and Arctozolt both enjoy seeds and nuts, but Arctozolt cannot digest them; invertebrates are a happy medium that satisfies both halves. Dracovish and Arctovish can digest fish, which luckily for them is acceptable for their lower halves as well.","Duralodon feast on a variety of minerals, obtained from rocks that they pulverize using their grinding arms. They will try to pick stones of different colors in order to maximize the number of different minerals they consume.","As far as scientists know, none of these Pokémon require food to survive. While they will eat solid foods like Berries in captivity, this does not seem to be a requirement for their continued existence.","As far as scientists know, none of these Pokémon require food to survive. While they will eat solid foods like Berries in captivity, this does not seem to be a requirement for their continued existence.","As far as scientists know, none of these Pokémon require food to survive. While they will eat solid foods like Berries in captivity, this does not seem to be a requirement for their continued existence.","","","",