"All stages of the Bulbasaur line should be provided access to ample sunlight and water. Wilting of the plants on their backs and lethargy in the Pokémon themselves are signs of dehydration. These Pokémon are more tolerant of pollution than other Grass-types, but prefer clean forest air. Though they can survive perfectly well in urban areas, trainers should take their Pokémon along on strolls in the park or forest to keep them happy.","All stages of the Bulbasaur line should be provided access to ample sunlight and water. Wilting of the plants on their backs and lethargy in the Pokémon themselves are signs of dehydration. These Pokémon are more tolerant of pollution than other Grass-types, but prefer clean forest air. Though they can survive perfectly well in urban areas, trainers should take their Pokémon along on strolls in the park or forest to keep them happy.","All stages of the Bulbasaur line should be provided access to ample sunlight and water. Wilting of the plants on their backs and lethargy in the Pokémon themselves are signs of dehydration. These Pokémon are more tolerant of pollution than other Grass-types, but prefer clean forest air. Though they can survive perfectly well in urban areas, trainers should take their Pokémon along on strolls in the park or forest to keep them happy.","The most basic precaution to take when raising Charmander is to ensure that all water sources are either sealed or in hard-to-reach places, as young Charmander can be very curious. Although Charmeleon may refuse to eat food from their caretakers at times, trainers are advised to leave food out for them anyways, because they will get hungry eventually. Finally, Charizard require plenty of open space so that they can fly freely; they also greatly dislike humid weather.","The most basic precaution to take when raising Charmander is to ensure that all water sources are either sealed or in hard-to-reach places, as young Charmander can be very curious. Although Charmeleon may refuse to eat food from their caretakers at times, trainers are advised to leave food out for them anyways, because they will get hungry eventually. Finally, Charizard require plenty of open space so that they can fly freely; they also greatly dislike humid weather.","The most basic precaution to take when raising Charmander is to ensure that all water sources are either sealed or in hard-to-reach places, as young Charmander can be very curious. Although Charmeleon may refuse to eat food from their caretakers at times, trainers are advised to leave food out for them anyways, because they will get hungry eventually. Finally, Charizard require plenty of open space so that they can fly freely; they also greatly dislike humid weather.","Squirtle are nearly as laid-back as their fellow Kanto starter Pokémon Bulbasaur, but are more difficult to take care of because of their need for bodies of water as opposed to sunlight as well as their inability to feed themselves. Members of this line have to drink copious amounts of water to fill sacs within their bodies to use in Water-type attacks. Their sturdy shells make them very hardy, however, which makes them ideal for clumsier trainers.","Squirtle are nearly as laid-back as their fellow Kanto starter Pokémon Bulbasaur, but are more difficult to take care of because of their need for bodies of water as opposed to sunlight as well as their inability to feed themselves. Members of this line have to drink copious amounts of water to fill sacs within their bodies to use in Water-type attacks. Their sturdy shells make them very hardy, however, which makes them ideal for clumsier trainers.","Squirtle are nearly as laid-back as their fellow Kanto starter Pokémon Bulbasaur, but are more difficult to take care of because of their need for bodies of water as opposed to sunlight as well as their inability to feed themselves. Members of this line have to drink copious amounts of water to fill sacs within their bodies to use in Water-type attacks. Their sturdy shells make them very hardy, however, which makes them ideal for clumsier trainers.","The Caterpie line is relatively easy to care for, making it a good choice for beginning trainers. Caterpie only require leaves to remain content, while Metapod needs virtually nothing at all. Though it may not look like it at first, Caterpie, also enjoy being played with by their trainers. Butterfree enjoy flying long distances, so trainers should allow them to fly off on their own and trust their strong senses of direction to find their ways back home.","The Caterpie line is relatively easy to care for, making it a good choice for beginning trainers. Caterpie only require leaves to remain content, while Metapod needs virtually nothing at all. Though it may not look like it at first, Caterpie, also enjoy being played with by their trainers. Butterfree enjoy flying long distances, so trainers should allow them to fly off on their own and trust their strong senses of direction to find their ways back home.","The Caterpie line is relatively easy to care for, making it a good choice for beginning trainers. Caterpie only require leaves to remain content, while Metapod needs virtually nothing at all. Though it may not look like it at first, Caterpie, also enjoy being played with by their trainers. Butterfree enjoy flying long distances, so trainers should allow them to fly off on their own and trust their strong senses of direction to find their ways back home.","Weedle are largely self-sufficient, so trainers only need to provide them with ample amounts of food for them to thrive. Kakuna don’t need any resources at all, other than perhaps a cool place to rest in (as their bodies heat up greatly while preparing for evolution). Beedrill prefer to hunt for their food instead of having it handed to them, so trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to inquire about how to handle their feeding in nearby forests.","Weedle are largely self-sufficient, so trainers only need to provide them with ample amounts of food for them to thrive. Kakuna don’t need any resources at all, other than perhaps a cool place to rest in (as their bodies heat up greatly while preparing for evolution). Beedrill prefer to hunt for their food instead of having it handed to them, so trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to inquire about how to handle their feeding in nearby forests.","Weedle are largely self-sufficient, so trainers only need to provide them with ample amounts of food for them to thrive. Kakuna don’t need any resources at all, other than perhaps a cool place to rest in (as their bodies heat up greatly while preparing for evolution). Beedrill prefer to hunt for their food instead of having it handed to them, so trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to inquire about how to handle their feeding in nearby forests.","The Pidgey line is another family of Pokémon well-suited for beginners, as they are very easy to raise. All members of the line can find food on their own, though they will eat meals given to them by their trainers without any qualms. Pidgey are not avid fliers, but their evolutions are, and need ample room to do so. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot also take meticulous care of their feathers, so trainers should provide them with water so that they can clean themselves periodically.","The Pidgey line is another family of Pokémon well-suited for beginners, as they are very easy to raise. All members of the line can find food on their own, though they will eat meals given to them by their trainers without any qualms. Pidgey are not avid fliers, but their evolutions are, and need ample room to do so. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot also take meticulous care of their feathers, so trainers should provide them with water so that they can clean themselves periodically.","The Pidgey line is another family of Pokémon well-suited for beginners, as they are very easy to raise. All members of the line can find food on their own, though they will eat meals given to them by their trainers without any qualms. Pidgey are not avid fliers, but their evolutions are, and need ample room to do so. Pidgeotto and Pidgeot also take meticulous care of their feathers, so trainers should provide them with water so that they can clean themselves periodically.","Although many consider these Pokémon nuisances, some trainers consider them great Pokémon for beginners to raise. Since they eat nearly anything and can live almost anywhere, they are incredibly low-maintenance. They are social, however, so they should never be raised alone (they don’t necessarily need the company of other Rattata and Raticate, but do require interaction with other Pokémon). They also should be given wood boards to gnaw on as their teeth grow.","Although many consider these Pokémon nuisances, some trainers consider them great Pokémon for beginners to raise. Since they eat nearly anything and can live almost anywhere, they are incredibly low-maintenance. They are social, however, so they should never be raised alone (they don’t necessarily need the company of other Rattata and Raticate, but do require interaction with other Pokémon). They also should be given wood boards to gnaw on as their teeth grow.","Spearow are heavily dependent on their flocks and will become depressed if separated from them. Caught Spearow should be allowed to socialize with other Pokémon as much as possible to mitigate this. Fearow are largely independent, in contrast, needing little support from their trainers. It should be noted that they are fiercely protective Pokémon that can even help out in protecting teammates from danger.","Spearow are heavily dependent on their flocks and will become depressed if separated from them. Caught Spearow should be allowed to socialize with other Pokémon as much as possible to mitigate this. Fearow are largely independent, in contrast, needing little support from their trainers. It should be noted that they are fiercely protective Pokémon that can even help out in protecting teammates from danger.","Ekans are relatively easy to feed, as they will happily consume any sort of eggs. Arbok are harder to please, but they are willing to eat prepared meat as opposed to live prey. Trainers should be aware that both Pokémon shed their skin periodically, and rub themselves against rough objects to slough off their old skins. They also like to hide in enclosed shelters after molting while they are still vulnerable. ","Ekans are relatively easy to feed, as they will happily consume any sort of eggs. Arbok are harder to please, but they are willing to eat prepared meat as opposed to live prey. Trainers should be aware that both Pokémon shed their skin periodically, and rub themselves against rough objects to slough off their old skins. They also like to hide in enclosed shelters after molting while they are still vulnerable. ","Trainers should be aware that Pichu have great difficulty holding electricity for long periods of time, often hurting themselves by discharging too quickly. Pikachu and Raichu have more control over their electrical abilities, however, and as such are easier to care for. They are social Pokémon that, while timid at first, can easily adapt to life with humans. Beginning trainers sometimes choose Pikachu as their starter Pokémon for this reason.","Trainers should be aware that Pichu have great difficulty holding electricity for long periods of time, often hurting themselves by discharging too quickly. Pikachu and Raichu have more control over their electrical abilities, however, and as such are easier to care for. They are social Pokémon that, while timid at first, can easily adapt to life with humans. Beginning trainers sometimes choose Pikachu as their starter Pokémon for this reason.","The Sandshrew line is very hardy. They largely prefer to feed themselves, even when trained. They also require very little water for survival. Additionally, their tough skin and armor allow them to protect themselves from most hazards. They are incredibly sensitive to water, though, so trainers should be very meticulous in keeping their homes dry. Other than this caveat, Sandshrew are easy, low-maintenance Pokémon that are great choices for beginning trainers to raise.","The Sandshrew line is very hardy. They largely prefer to feed themselves, even when trained. They also require very little water for survival. Additionally, their tough skin and armor allow them to protect themselves from most hazards. They are incredibly sensitive to water, though, so trainers should be very meticulous in keeping their homes dry. Other than this caveat, Sandshrew are easy, low-maintenance Pokémon that are great choices for beginning trainers to raise.","All members of the Nidoran family are very social; Nidoran are bonded with their siblings and parents, while the older evolutions are protective of their offspring and mates. Separating any family member would not only stress the Pokémon caught but also the family left behind. For this reason, trainers should only try to catch young Nidoran who have not yet been imprinted by their families, and should ensure that they have new, stable families to call their own upon capture.","All members of the Nidoran family are very social; Nidoran are bonded with their siblings and parents, while the older evolutions are protective of their offspring and mates. Separating any family member would not only stress the Pokémon caught but also the family left behind. For this reason, trainers should only try to catch young Nidoran who have not yet been imprinted by their families, and should ensure that they have new, stable families to call their own upon capture.","All members of the Nidoran family are very social; Nidoran are bonded with their siblings and parents, while the older evolutions are protective of their offspring and mates. Separating any family member would not only stress the Pokémon caught but also the family left behind. For this reason, trainers should only try to catch young Nidoran who have not yet been imprinted by their families, and should ensure that they have new, stable families to call their own upon capture.","All members of the Nidoran family are very social; Nidoran are bonded with their siblings and parents, while the older evolutions are protective of their offspring and mates. Separating any family member would not only stress the Pokémon caught but also the family left behind. For this reason, trainers should only try to catch young Nidoran who have not yet been imprinted by their families, and should ensure that they have new, stable families to call their own upon capture.","All members of the Nidoran family are very social; Nidoran are bonded with their siblings and parents, while the older evolutions are protective of their offspring and mates. Separating any family member would not only stress the Pokémon caught but also the family left behind. For this reason, trainers should only try to catch young Nidoran who have not yet been imprinted by their families, and should ensure that they have new, stable families to call their own upon capture.","All members of the Nidoran family are very social; Nidoran are bonded with their siblings and parents, while the older evolutions are protective of their offspring and mates. Separating any family member would not only stress the Pokémon caught but also the family left behind. For this reason, trainers should only try to catch young Nidoran who have not yet been imprinted by their families, and should ensure that they have new, stable families to call their own upon capture.","The Cleffa line is incredibly shy and dislike being in crowded situations. For this reason, trainers should not take their Pokémon into urban towns and cities outside of their Poké Balls. Cleffa enjoy dancing during and after meteor showers, while Clefairy and Clefable do the same during full moons. They should not be interrupted during their astronomical rituals, because they will become anxious if they cannot complete them correctly. As rare but timid Pok","The Cleffa line is incredibly shy and dislike being in crowded situations. For this reason, trainers should not take their Pokémon into urban towns and cities outside of their Poké Balls. Cleffa enjoy dancing during and after meteor showers, while Clefairy and Clefable do the same during full moons. They should not be interrupted during their astronomical rituals, because they will become anxious if they cannot complete them correctly. As rare but timid Pok","Despite being Fire-types, Vulpix and Nintetales are rather resilient towards low temperatures. Their fur and internal fires keep them warm in the cold. Both Pokémon take incredibly meticulous care of their fur, spending much of their days grooming themselves. Access to clean water is integral in keeping them happy, as they will become distressed when unable to properly clean themselves. Vulpix tail fur tangles quite easily and requires careful brushing.","Despite being Fire-types, Vulpix and Nintetales are rather resilient towards low temperatures. Their fur and internal fires keep them warm in the cold. Both Pokémon take incredibly meticulous care of their fur, spending much of their days grooming themselves. Access to clean water is integral in keeping them happy, as they will become distressed when unable to properly clean themselves. Vulpix tail fur tangles quite easily and requires careful brushing.","Wigglytuff fur is hypoallergenic, a plus for trainers with allergies. Wigglytuff themselves, though, are sensitive to dust, which can irritate their huge eyes. Igglybuff and Jigglypuff can be blown about by strong winds, so they should remain indoors in rough weather. Igglypuff have weak vocal cords, but will continue to practice singing even when sore; their trainers should intervene when this happens to give them time to recover. Jigglypuff also may not stop singing when faced with foes they cannot put to sleep; trainers should be ready to stop them in this event. Since they enjoy being around people, they are excellent choices for urban trainers.","Wigglytuff fur is hypoallergenic, a plus for trainers with allergies. Wigglytuff themselves, though, are sensitive to dust, which can irritate their huge eyes. Igglybuff and Jigglypuff can be blown about by strong winds, so they should remain indoors in rough weather. Igglypuff have weak vocal cords, but will continue to practice singing even when sore; their trainers should intervene when this happens to give them time to recover. Jigglypuff also may not stop singing when faced with foes they cannot put to sleep; trainers should be ready to stop them in this event. Since they enjoy being around people, they are excellent choices for urban trainers.","None of these Pokémon particularly enjoy bright light. However, Zubat in particular can be harmed by prolonged exposure to sunlight, which can damage their thin skin. Golbat also dislike metal, while both Golbat and Crobat despise Durin Berries for unknown reasons. Golbat are content sucking blood from carcasses, and as such are surprisingly easy to feed. Crobat cannot land on the ground and need branches or other elevated structures in order to perch. Golbat may break their fangs when trying to bite sharp objects, but the fangs will grow back over time.","None of these Pokémon particularly enjoy bright light. However, Zubat in particular can be harmed by prolonged exposure to sunlight, which can damage their thin skin. Golbat also dislike metal, while both Golbat and Crobat despise Durin Berries for unknown reasons. Golbat are content sucking blood from carcasses, and as such are surprisingly easy to feed. Crobat cannot land on the ground and need branches or other elevated structures in order to perch. Golbat may break their fangs when trying to bite sharp objects, but the fangs will grow back over time.","Oddish dislike sunlight, since it damages their sensitive skin (which is thin to enable the absorption of nutrients from the soil). Bellossom, on the other hand, should be provided with ample sunlight so that they can thrive. Gloom and Vileplume can largely take care of themselves, making them ideal Pokémon for beginning trainers to raise--provided they can handle Gloom’s stench, that is.","Oddish dislike sunlight, since it damages their sensitive skin (which is thin to enable the absorption of nutrients from the soil). Bellossom, on the other hand, should be provided with ample sunlight so that they can thrive. Gloom and Vileplume can largely take care of themselves, making them ideal Pokémon for beginning trainers to raise--provided they can handle Gloom’s stench, that is.","Oddish dislike sunlight, since it damages their sensitive skin (which is thin to enable the absorption of nutrients from the soil). Bellossom, on the other hand, should be provided with ample sunlight so that they can thrive. Gloom and Vileplume can largely take care of themselves, making them ideal Pokémon for beginning trainers to raise--provided they can handle Gloom’s stench, that is.","The Paras line dislikes sunlight and will remain in the darkness as much as possible. They prefer to stay buried in moist soil, only emerging when it dries. Trainers should provide their Paras and Parasect with dark, humid dirt deep enough to hide themselves in. It should also be noted that they eat far more than what their sizes may suggest, since they have to feed two organisms simultaneously.","The Paras line dislikes sunlight and will remain in the darkness as much as possible. They prefer to stay buried in moist soil, only emerging when it dries. Trainers should provide their Paras and Parasect with dark, humid dirt deep enough to hide themselves in. It should also be noted that they eat far more than what their sizes may suggest, since they have to feed two organisms simultaneously.","In terms of feeding, the Venonat line is generally self-sufficient. As long as they are able to roam about at night, they will be easily able to hunt for themselves. Trainers should know that their attraction to light is involuntary, as it seems to be a deep-seated instinct that overrides other thought processes. For this reason, trainers should avoid taking their Pokémon into cities at night, as the abundance of lighting can greatly disorient them.","In terms of feeding, the Venonat line is generally self-sufficient. As long as they are able to roam about at night, they will be easily able to hunt for themselves. Trainers should know that their attraction to light is involuntary, as it seems to be a deep-seated instinct that overrides other thought processes. For this reason, trainers should avoid taking their Pokémon into cities at night, as the abundance of lighting can greatly disorient them.","Both Diglett and Dugtrio must always remain on solid ground. They never leave their burrows no matter what, so trainers should not release them in onto concrete or in houses unless they wish to leave holes in the floor. In the event that their tunnels become flooded, these Pokémon will dig tunnels deep into the earth until the water drains deep enough to be fully absorbed by the soil. Their skin is also very sensitive to light.","Both Diglett and Dugtrio must always remain on solid ground. They never leave their burrows no matter what, so trainers should not release them in onto concrete or in houses unless they wish to leave holes in the floor. In the event that their tunnels become flooded, these Pokémon will dig tunnels deep into the earth until the water drains deep enough to be fully absorbed by the soil. Their skin is also very sensitive to light.","The Meowth line is adapted to urban environments, so trainers in big cities will have an easy time training them. They are generally solitary, sometimes even preferring to stalk streets alone at night without their trainers. Meowth enjoy round and shiny objects. Trainers should never grab or damage a Persian’s whiskers, because the hairs are vital to the Pokémon’s ability to navigate about.","The Meowth line is adapted to urban environments, so trainers in big cities will have an easy time training them. They are generally solitary, sometimes even preferring to stalk streets alone at night without their trainers. Meowth enjoy round and shiny objects. Trainers should never grab or damage a Persian’s whiskers, because the hairs are vital to the Pokémon’s ability to navigate about.","Trainers should not try to treat their Psyduck’s headaches with traditional or alternative medicine; though they cause the Pokémon pain and stress, they are a natural occurrence for the species and are necessary for them to properly develop their psychic abilities. Both Psyduck and Golduck need to keep their skin moist. Golduck also need access to large bodies of water in order to swim freely.","Trainers should not try to treat their Psyduck’s headaches with traditional or alternative medicine; though they cause the Pokémon pain and stress, they are a natural occurrence for the species and are necessary for them to properly develop their psychic abilities. Both Psyduck and Golduck need to keep their skin moist. Golduck also need access to large bodies of water in order to swim freely.","Mankey are social and will become very lonely, as well as angry, when separated from their loved ones. Both Pokémon have famously short tempers and can be set off by nearly anything. The best thing for trainers who wish to raise them to know is that they can be easily pacified with offerings of peeled chestnuts. They are playful Pokémon despite their tempers, so trainers should try to engage them with low-stress games.","Mankey are social and will become very lonely, as well as angry, when separated from their loved ones. Both Pokémon have famously short tempers and can be set off by nearly anything. The best thing for trainers who wish to raise them to know is that they can be easily pacified with offerings of peeled chestnuts. They are playful Pokémon despite their tempers, so trainers should try to engage them with low-stress games.","The Growlithe line is adapted to life with humans. They enjoy being played with and simply spending time with their trainers. Arcanine also love running, so trainers should take them out to open fields and other places where they can sprint freely. Growlithe are content with taking leisurely strolls down streets and through parks. They dislike baths, but their fur should be cleaned with dry soap and brushed periodically.","The Growlithe line is adapted to life with humans. They enjoy being played with and simply spending time with their trainers. Arcanine also love running, so trainers should take them out to open fields and other places where they can sprint freely. Growlithe are content with taking leisurely strolls down streets and through parks. They dislike baths, but their fur should be cleaned with dry soap and brushed periodically.","All members of the Poliwag family must keep their skin moist at all times, as they will suffocate if it dries out. Poliwag are clumsy on land and will stumble often. so trainers should keep a close eye on them out of the water. Poliwrath enjoy practicing their swimming technique, so trainers should take them out to large lakes often. Poliwag, Poliwhirl, and Poliwrath are entranced by the sound of Politoed croaking; trainers should recall their Pokémon if they hear the distinct sound.","All members of the Poliwag family must keep their skin moist at all times, as they will suffocate if it dries out. Poliwag are clumsy on land and will stumble often. so trainers should keep a close eye on them out of the water. Poliwrath enjoy practicing their swimming technique, so trainers should take them out to large lakes often. Poliwag, Poliwhirl, and Poliwrath are entranced by the sound of Politoed croaking; trainers should recall their Pokémon if they hear the distinct sound.","All members of the Poliwag family must keep their skin moist at all times, as they will suffocate if it dries out. Poliwag are clumsy on land and will stumble often. so trainers should keep a close eye on them out of the water. Poliwrath enjoy practicing their swimming technique, so trainers should take them out to large lakes often. Poliwag, Poliwhirl, and Poliwrath are entranced by the sound of Politoed croaking; trainers should recall their Pokémon if they hear the distinct sound.","Abra sleep through most of the day, but should not be awoken unless in immediate danger. Lack of sleep can hinder their abilities temporarily, or even stunt their growth if it happens too often. None of the members of this family are good with physical exertion. Since they use psychokinesis for virtually everything they do, they aren’t very good Pokémon to play catch or go out for a run with. Kadabra and Alakazam love reading books, though they go through them very quickly.","Abra sleep through most of the day, but should not be awoken unless in immediate danger. Lack of sleep can hinder their abilities temporarily, or even stunt their growth if it happens too often. None of the members of this family are good with physical exertion. Since they use psychokinesis for virtually everything they do, they aren’t very good Pokémon to play catch or go out for a run with. Kadabra and Alakazam love reading books, though they go through them very quickly.","Abra sleep through most of the day, but should not be awoken unless in immediate danger. Lack of sleep can hinder their abilities temporarily, or even stunt their growth if it happens too often. None of the members of this family are good with physical exertion. Since they use psychokinesis for virtually everything they do, they aren’t very good Pokémon to play catch or go out for a run with. Kadabra and Alakazam love reading books, though they go through them very quickly.","The Machop family is very hardy and requires little care other than proper nutrition and exercise. Since even Machop can physically exert themselves far more than most people, it is suggested that trainers should buy their Pokémon memberships to local Pokémon-friendly gyms, where they can work out to their hearts’ content. They eat quite a lot of food for their size in order to supply the energy they need, so trainers may find themselves going to the market more often.","The Machop family is very hardy and requires little care other than proper nutrition and exercise. Since even Machop can physically exert themselves far more than most people, it is suggested that trainers should buy their Pokémon memberships to local Pokémon-friendly gyms, where they can work out to their hearts’ content. They eat quite a lot of food for their size in order to supply the energy they need, so trainers may find themselves going to the market more often.","The Machop family is very hardy and requires little care other than proper nutrition and exercise. Since even Machop can physically exert themselves far more than most people, it is suggested that trainers should buy their Pokémon memberships to local Pokémon-friendly gyms, where they can work out to their hearts’ content. They eat quite a lot of food for their size in order to supply the energy they need, so trainers may find themselves going to the market more often.","Unlike most other Grass-type Pokémon, the Bellsprout line does not need much sunlight. They are adapted to life in dark, damp, nutrient-poor swamps (likely why they evolved to be carnivorous). With that said, they still do need plenty of water; Bellsprout also need a substrate of some kind to root in while resting. These Pokémon all prefer to catch live prey.","Unlike most other Grass-type Pokémon, the Bellsprout line does not need much sunlight. They are adapted to life in dark, damp, nutrient-poor swamps (likely why they evolved to be carnivorous). With that said, they still do need plenty of water; Bellsprout also need a substrate of some kind to root in while resting. These Pokémon all prefer to catch live prey.","Unlike most other Grass-type Pokémon, the Bellsprout line does not need much sunlight. They are adapted to life in dark, damp, nutrient-poor swamps (likely why they evolved to be carnivorous). With that said, they still do need plenty of water; Bellsprout also need a substrate of some kind to root in while resting. These Pokémon all prefer to catch live prey.","As oceanic Pokémon, the Tentacool line needs seawater to thrive. Trainers should never send their Pokémon out into freshwater, as the difference in salinity would cause their cells to begin bursting in cytolysis. Since they are primarily made up of water, even minor differences in water concentration can significantly affect the wellbeing of these Pokémon. They are tolerant of water pollution and as such fare well even near large cities.","As oceanic Pokémon, the Tentacool line needs seawater to thrive. Trainers should never send their Pokémon out into freshwater, as the difference in salinity would cause their cells to begin bursting in cytolysis. Since they are primarily made up of water, even minor differences in water concentration can significantly affect the wellbeing of these Pokémon. They are tolerant of water pollution and as such fare well even near large cities.","As one might expect, the Geodude line is extraordinarily hardy, since the members all consist almost entirely of stone. All stages of the line are extremely vulnerable to water, however; they do not even need to drink water at all, since they are inorganic. Trainers should do their best to keep their Pokémon away from the substance as much as possible.","As one might expect, the Geodude line is extraordinarily hardy, since the members all consist almost entirely of stone. All stages of the line are extremely vulnerable to water, however; they do not even need to drink water at all, since they are inorganic. Trainers should do their best to keep their Pokémon away from the substance as much as possible.","As one might expect, the Geodude line is extraordinarily hardy, since the members all consist almost entirely of stone. All stages of the line are extremely vulnerable to water, however; they do not even need to drink water at all, since they are inorganic. Trainers should do their best to keep their Pokémon away from the substance as much as possible.","Ponyta are born as poor runners, but improve with practice. Wide open fields are a necessity in properly raising these Pokémon. Rapidash also enjoy running, but particularly enjoy racing others; other fast Pokémon make great running mates for them. Though their flames may be dangerous to touch at first, trainers should be able to ride their Pokémon after bonding with them without any trouble.","Ponyta are born as poor runners, but improve with practice. Wide open fields are a necessity in properly raising these Pokémon. Rapidash also enjoy running, but particularly enjoy racing others; other fast Pokémon make great running mates for them. Though their flames may be dangerous to touch at first, trainers should be able to ride their Pokémon after bonding with them without any trouble.","Slowpoke and Slowbro are not active Pokémon, are are content lounging around doing absolutely nothing. They prefer being near water, but will not be stressed if placed in drier environments. Slowking similarly do not need much physical simulation. However, they are intensely intellectual and philosophical. Books and movies will keep their minds active; they are even known to stare at paintings for hours on end in order to decipher meaning in the artwork.","Slowpoke and Slowbro are not active Pokémon, are are content lounging around doing absolutely nothing. They prefer being near water, but will not be stressed if placed in drier environments. Slowking similarly do not need much physical simulation. However, they are intensely intellectual and philosophical. Books and movies will keep their minds active; they are even known to stare at paintings for hours on end in order to decipher meaning in the artwork.","The Magnemite family doesn’t eat food, drink water, or even breathe air, so they are easy for most people to raise. Generators can easily be bought from most hardware stores, producing a steady supply of electricity for these Pokémon to feed on; even if trainers forget to feed them, they can produce their own energy by spinning their magnets. They may rust when left in the rain for too long. Additionally, strong magnets of either polarity can affect their locomotion.","The Magnemite family doesn’t eat food, drink water, or even breathe air, so they are easy for most people to raise. Generators can easily be bought from most hardware stores, producing a steady supply of electricity for these Pokémon to feed on; even if trainers forget to feed them, they can produce their own energy by spinning their magnets. They may rust when left in the rain for too long. Additionally, strong magnets of either polarity can affect their locomotion.","Farfetch’d spend a good portion of their time in the water, so trainers should seek out small ponds, oftentimes in local parks, where their Pokémon can swim. Their leeks are of utmost importance to them, and should never leave their side. Farfetch’d will become very stressed if their leeks are taken away from them, even if they trainers simply want to clean mud off of them or something similar. Leek maintenance is best left for the Farfetch’d to handle. ","Doduo and Dodrio both enjoy running, which they will do for most of the day. Wide open spaces are necessary for these Pokémon. They eat a lot for their sizes, since they have to support multiple heads and brains. They dislike cold or wet weather, as they thrive in arid and dry environments.","Doduo and Dodrio both enjoy running, which they will do for most of the day. Wide open spaces are necessary for these Pokémon. They eat a lot for their sizes, since they have to support multiple heads and brains. They dislike cold or wet weather, as they thrive in arid and dry environments.","Both Pokémon are polar inhabitants that thrive in freezing environments. Though they are able to survive on land, they are very clumsy maneuvering on it and very much prefer the water. They are most comfortable in water cold enough to support ice floes, which they enjoy frolicking on. Since such a body of water is difficult for a lone trainer to maintain, it is advised to contact the local branch of the Pokémon League regarding suitable facilities for these Pokémon.","Both Pokémon are polar inhabitants that thrive in freezing environments. Though they are able to survive on land, they are very clumsy maneuvering on it and very much prefer the water. They are most comfortable in water cold enough to support ice floes, which they enjoy frolicking on. Since such a body of water is difficult for a lone trainer to maintain, it is advised to contact the local branch of the Pokémon League regarding suitable facilities for these Pokémon.","Wild Grimer and Muk deservedly have reputations for being huge problems in urban areas. Trained Pokémon, however, are considerably less troublesome; much of what makes Grimer and Muk so poisonous is what they consume. Though they will eat practically any sort of refuse, feeding them clean, liquid-heavy foods like certain fruits and Berries (which they prefer rotten) will make them considerably less toxic--though still just as putrid-smelling.","Wild Grimer and Muk deservedly have reputations for being huge problems in urban areas. Trained Pokémon, however, are considerably less troublesome; much of what makes Grimer and Muk so poisonous is what they consume. Though they will eat practically any sort of refuse, feeding them clean, liquid-heavy foods like certain fruits and Berries (which they prefer rotten) will make them considerably less toxic--though still just as putrid-smelling.","Shellder and Cloyster are both aquatic Pokémon that spend the bulk of their time in the water. They can stay on land for extended periods of time, however. Shellder can even survive their whole lives simply in damp sand where the waves wash ashore. They are resistant to changes in salinity and will gladly eat commercial Pokémon food, making them easy to raise. They prefer cool waters, however, and will not do well in warmer temperatures.","Shellder and Cloyster are both aquatic Pokémon that spend the bulk of their time in the water. They can stay on land for extended periods of time, however. Shellder can even survive their whole lives simply in damp sand where the waves wash ashore. They are resistant to changes in salinity and will gladly eat commercial Pokémon food, making them easy to raise. They prefer cool waters, however, and will not do well in warmer temperatures.","It is difficult to justify allowing these Pokémon to recklessly siphon the life forces of wild Pokémon, or letting them have free reign in towns and cities to scare citizens and feed on their emotions. At the moment, the most ethical option for properly feeding these Pokémon is to opt for farm-raised livestock, oftentimes from the same facilities that provide people with meat, though this choice is far from controversial.","It is difficult to justify allowing these Pokémon to recklessly siphon the life forces of wild Pokémon, or letting them have free reign in towns and cities to scare citizens and feed on their emotions. At the moment, the most ethical option for properly feeding these Pokémon is to opt for farm-raised livestock, oftentimes from the same facilities that provide people with meat, though this choice is far from controversial.","It is difficult to justify allowing these Pokémon to recklessly siphon the life forces of wild Pokémon, or letting them have free reign in towns and cities to scare citizens and feed on their emotions. At the moment, the most ethical option for properly feeding these Pokémon is to opt for farm-raised livestock, oftentimes from the same facilities that provide people with meat, though this choice is far from controversial.","These Pokémon are rather clumsy aboveground, as their bodies are adapted to tunneling through solid earth. They will leave large holes in the ground as they burrow, which can be freely used by other subterranean Pokémon. These Pokémon should be kept away from magnets, which can disrupt the magnetic organs in their heads. Onix are particularly weak to water and stay away from the substance at all costs.","Raising these Pokémon is surprisingly easy. Drowzee are mellow creatures, and Hypno, while disconcerting to some, also tend to keep to themselves. They are also exceptionally easy to feed, though as a side effect their trainers generally stop remembering their own dreams. Both Pokémon can show people their dreams upon awakening, however, so little is lost after these Pokémon eat their dreams.","Raising these Pokémon is surprisingly easy. Drowzee are mellow creatures, and Hypno, while disconcerting to some, also tend to keep to themselves. They are also exceptionally easy to feed, though as a side effect their trainers generally stop remembering their own dreams. Both Pokémon can show people their dreams upon awakening, however, so little is lost after these Pokémon eat their dreams.","Members of the Krabby line prefer saline environments and like to stay moist. However, they are capable of surviving on land for extended periods of time. Krabby dig themselves into the sand when they feel threatened, so trainers should provide them with a suitable damp substrate to burrow into. Kingler have difficulty righting themselves when tipped over because of their heavy claws, and may need aid if they stumble. ","Members of the Krabby line prefer saline environments and like to stay moist. However, they are capable of surviving on land for extended periods of time. Krabby dig themselves into the sand when they feel threatened, so trainers should provide them with a suitable damp substrate to burrow into. Kingler have difficulty righting themselves when tipped over because of their heavy claws, and may need aid if they stumble. ","These Pokémon don’t need air, water, or food in the traditional sense, instead only needing a generator to draw electricity from. With that being said, however, they are far from easy to raise, since they explode at the slightest provocation. Their feeding must be closely monitored. If left unchecked, they will continue to draw electricity from whatever sources are available until they overload and explode.","These Pokémon don’t need air, water, or food in the traditional sense, instead only needing a generator to draw electricity from. With that being said, however, they are far from easy to raise, since they explode at the slightest provocation. Their feeding must be closely monitored. If left unchecked, they will continue to draw electricity from whatever sources are available until they overload and explode.","Neither Exeggcute nor Exeggutor are particularly difficult to raise. Exeggcute are very fragile and should be handled with extreme care. They should never be separated from their groups of six, as they will become very stressed if this occurs. Execuggtor only need sunlight to be perfectly content; they can easily converse with themselves through telepathy for hours on end to keep themselves occupied.","Neither Exeggcute nor Exeggutor are particularly difficult to raise. Exeggcute are very fragile and should be handled with extreme care. They should never be separated from their groups of six, as they will become very stressed if this occurs. Execuggtor only need sunlight to be perfectly content; they can easily converse with themselves through telepathy for hours on end to keep themselves occupied.","Cubone are timid creatures that have difficulty making social connections. It takes a lot of work to coax these Pokémon into participating in group activities, though the process pays off when they evolve into Marowak that are much more compassionate than their ruthless wild brethren. Wild Marowak are even more difficult to raise, so it is suggested that trainers raise and evolve young Cubone instead if they wish to train these Pokémon.","Cubone are timid creatures that have difficulty making social connections. It takes a lot of work to coax these Pokémon into participating in group activities, though the process pays off when they evolve into Marowak that are much more compassionate than their ruthless wild brethren. Wild Marowak are even more difficult to raise, so it is suggested that trainers raise and evolve young Cubone instead if they wish to train these Pokémon.","Trainers should allow their Tyrogue will engage in a variety of different fighting styles so that they can see which they prefer the most. They enjoy strict training regimens, and will become anxious if trainers try to let them plan their own schedules. Their evolutions, however, are self-sufficient. Many gyms will gladly allow these Pokémon to practice in their facilities free of charge in exchange for working as trainers or sparring partners.","Trainers should allow their Tyrogue will engage in a variety of different fighting styles so that they can see which they prefer the most. They enjoy strict training regimens, and will become anxious if trainers try to let them plan their own schedules. Their evolutions, however, are self-sufficient. Many gyms will gladly allow these Pokémon to practice in their facilities free of charge in exchange for working as trainers or sparring partners.","Since these Pokémon rely on their tongues to learn about their surroundings, it is important that trainers insure that they keep up with good oral hygiene. Though their saliva is naturally antibacterial, infections can result from minor cuts and abrasions on their sensitive tongues; mouthwash is an easy way to combat these afflictions. Very tart, salty, and particularly spicy foods can also overwhelm their taste buds and render them unable to taste anything for a while afterwards.","Koffing and Weezing essentially perform the terrestrial version of filter-feeding, making them very easy to feed. Trainers should keep their Pokémon away from heat sources and open flames, as they will easily ignite the gases that these Pokémon expel and cause them to explode. Rapid changes in temperature make it difficult for them to float comfortably; warm temperatures will cause them to rise suddenly while colder ones will cause them to sink.","Koffing and Weezing essentially perform the terrestrial version of filter-feeding, making them very easy to feed. Trainers should keep their Pokémon away from heat sources and open flames, as they will easily ignite the gases that these Pokémon expel and cause them to explode. Rapid changes in temperature make it difficult for them to float comfortably; warm temperatures will cause them to rise suddenly while colder ones will cause them to sink.","These Pokémon are notoriously hardy, but are very weak to water. Their thick armor prevents them from reacting to its presence quickly, so trainers should keep a close eye on their Pokémon  in wet environments. Rhyhorn cannot turn while charging, so they need plenty of open space while running. Rhyhorn racing tracks have sharp, 90° turns for this reason. Rhyperior need access to exposed stone to provide themselves with ammo for their rock-based attacks.","These Pokémon are notoriously hardy, but are very weak to water. Their thick armor prevents them from reacting to its presence quickly, so trainers should keep a close eye on their Pokémon  in wet environments. Rhyhorn cannot turn while charging, so they need plenty of open space while running. Rhyhorn racing tracks have sharp, 90° turns for this reason. Rhyperior need access to exposed stone to provide themselves with ammo for their rock-based attacks.","Though both Chansey and Blissey can be skittish and shy away from people, Happiny can in fact be quite brash. They should always be allowed to hold Oval Stones or similarly-shaped objects, as they will become upset if they cannot find any.  A stone offered by a Happiny should always be accepted, as refusal is taken as a sign of disrespect. Chansey and Blissey can easily take care of themselves (as well as other Pokémon), but it should be noted that immoral acts greatly upset them.","As with most plant-like Pokémon, both Tangela and Tangrowth need ample water and sunlight to thrive. These Pokémon seem to require much less of either resource than other Grass-types, however. This likely is a result of their carnivorous diets as well as their tendency to stay still for extended periods of time; it is normal for these Pokémon, particularly Tangrowth, to sit patiently in hiding for hours or even days while waiting for prey to pass by.","Infant Kangaskhan imprint upon their mothers upon birth, and will refuse to accept care from anyone other than them. For this reason, orphans are unfortunately difficult to raise. Adult Kangaskhan are self-sufficient. Other than providing them with food, shelter, and some toys for their offspring to play with, they can essentially take care of themselves.","These Pokémon are sensitive to water conditions, particularly to temperature and purity. Polluted or excessively cold water can easily make them ill. Kingdra need very large volumes of water to thrive. These Pokémon all prefer calm waters. Branched corals are also a necessity in their habitats, particularly for Horsea and Seadra, as they will latch onto branches while sleeping and resting. Calcium is particularly important for Seadra in order to keep their spines healthy.","These Pokémon are sensitive to water conditions, particularly to temperature and purity. Polluted or excessively cold water can easily make them ill. Kingdra need very large volumes of water to thrive. These Pokémon all prefer calm waters. Branched corals are also a necessity in their habitats, particularly for Horsea and Seadra, as they will latch onto branches while sleeping and resting. Calcium is particularly important for Seadra in order to keep their spines healthy.","Goldeen and Seaking are obviously aquatic Pokémon. They will splash aimlessly about on land in search of water. They are easy to feed since they eat nearly anything, but particularly prefer algae; for this reason, many professional aquariums house Goldeen in their tanks to help clear away muck from their tanks. Seaking are very active in the autumn during breeding season and will become restless if confined in small spaces during this time.","Goldeen and Seaking are obviously aquatic Pokémon. They will splash aimlessly about on land in search of water. They are easy to feed since they eat nearly anything, but particularly prefer algae; for this reason, many professional aquariums house Goldeen in their tanks to help clear away muck from their tanks. Seaking are very active in the autumn during breeding season and will become restless if confined in small spaces during this time.","Though they can survive for periods of time outside of the water, the Staryu family prefers to remain submerged, resting on sandy sea floors or solid rock. These Pokémon thrive in cool waters, but can survive in warmer climates as well. Their cores, though hard, can be shattered; damage to their cores will cause permanent injury or even death. Both Pokémon enjoy basking under the night sky, particularly when the sky is unobscured by clouds.","Though they can survive for periods of time outside of the water, the Staryu family prefers to remain submerged, resting on sandy sea floors or solid rock. These Pokémon thrive in cool waters, but can survive in warmer climates as well. Their cores, though hard, can be shattered; damage to their cores will cause permanent injury or even death. Both Pokémon enjoy basking under the night sky, particularly when the sky is unobscured by clouds.","These Pokémon love performing, and will mime on street corners for fun even when they do not need food. Mime Jr. love candy and will eat it until they get sick; trainers should know that this is obviously not healthy for them and keep sweets in hard-to-reach locations. Ironically, despite often pretending to be trapped in small boxes, Mr. Mime are claustrophobic and greatly dislike actually being confined.","Scyther are naturally pack hunters, but handle isolation better than most other social Pokémon (lone individuals tend to be more aggressive, however). Scizor are solitary by nature and dislike being in large, noisy groups. Both Pokémon prefer to catch live prey but are content with fresh meat. They enjoy honing their hunting skills by chasing down toys or slicing trees, however. Although Scyther can fly, they do not seem to suffer any ill effects if they are unable to do so.","Both Smoochum and Jynx have thin, sensitive skin. They will break out into rashes from mild irritants like dirt, so they try to keep as clean and moisturized as possible. Warm, dry air will quickly dehydrate them and cause their skin to crack. ","As baby Pokémon, Elekid can be a handful at times. They often have short bursts of energy, during which they will spin their arms wildly to charge up. Doing so quickly tires them out, however, and they have to rest immediately afterwards. Electabuzz and Electivire are comparatively low-maintenance. As long as they are provided with a steady source of electricity (usually from a generator), they are largely able to take care of themselves.","Although these Pokémon are able to acclimate to moderate climates with few problems, they should not be brought out in cold weather, which can turn them sluggish and lethargic. They enjoy taking baths in hot lava, so trainers should let them explore near active volcanoes (from a far, safe distance of course) if possible. Magby will expel dull red flames or sooty smoke when they are sick or ill.","Pinsir are not very picky eaters, and have no preference between live prey or prepared carcasses. This makes them relatively easy to feed. However, they do enjoy chasing things down and catching them, so trainers should provide their Pinsir with mobile toys for them to pursue. These Pokémon also dislike the cold and will even hibernate if the temperature remains frigid for too long.","Domesticated Tauros are considerably more docile than their wild brethren, but still possess many of the same characteristics. They require lots of land, both for grazing and for running. They are also herd animals that enjoy being in large groups. Butting heads is normal for these Pokémon and should not be considered, as they enjoy testing their strength against others and even take pride in their wounds.","Taking care of Magikarp is exceedingly easy. Provided with nothing more than algae and a large enough container of water, they would easily survive and even thrive. They are often sold as aquarium fish to young children for this reason (to be released as they approach evolution, of course). Gyarados require huge bodies of water and should only be let out of their Poké Balls in large lakes or oceans. They have no preferences between live or dead prey.","Taking care of Magikarp is exceedingly easy. Provided with nothing more than algae and a large enough container of water, they would easily survive and even thrive. They are often sold as aquarium fish to young children for this reason (to be released as they approach evolution, of course). Gyarados require huge bodies of water and should only be let out of their Poké Balls in large lakes or oceans. They have no preferences between live or dead prey.","Lapras are social and enjoy being in pods. Since assembling an entire pod of these Pokémon is a difficult task even for conservationists, trainers should instead allow them to spend time with their other Pokémon; they are amicable and will easily make friends. They dislike large crowds of strangers, however. Though they spend most of their time in cold waters, they do migrate to warmer areas in the spring and can withstand a wide range of temperatures.","Ditto are relatively easy to care for. When they sleep, they turn into rocks, and require nothing at all to sustain themselves. They enjoy learning to transform into new things, and will spend the day wandering about and morphing into whatever they come across. Ditto should be kept in wide open areas until they learn to not transform into anything large or hazardous inside enclosed buildings.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","Being the first instance of a virtual Pokémon, Porygon are rather clunky and unwieldy. They do not do much and can be slow at responding to commands. Porygon2 are more streamlined, and for the most part are self-sustaining. Porygon-Z can be a danger to themselves when glitching out, so trainers should be prepared to recall them into their Poké Balls if they do so. All members of the line should be returned periodically to their Poké Balls so that they can recharge.","Both Omanyte and Omastar are pelagic Pokémon that require relatively deep water. Though Omanyte are docile and can feasibly be raised in tall tanks, Omastar are rowdier than their pre-evolutions and may break glass with their spikes. When Omastar fire their spikes, they are left with vulnerable holes in their shells. Their exposed flesh is very delicate and prone to infections if injured, so trainers should keep a close watch on these openings.","Both Omanyte and Omastar are pelagic Pokémon that require relatively deep water. Though Omanyte are docile and can feasibly be raised in tall tanks, Omastar are rowdier than their pre-evolutions and may break glass with their spikes. When Omastar fire their spikes, they are left with vulnerable holes in their shells. Their exposed flesh is very delicate and prone to infections if injured, so trainers should keep a close watch on these openings.","Though amphibious in nature, neither of these Pokémon can spend much time out of the water without asphyxiating. Kabuto like to hide and hate to expose themselves when not feeding, so some sort of substrate is necessary in the habitats of these Pokémon. Kabutops whet their scythes on rocks and other hard objects to keep them as sharp as possible.","Though amphibious in nature, neither of these Pokémon can spend much time out of the water without asphyxiating. Kabuto like to hide and hate to expose themselves when not feeding, so some sort of substrate is necessary in the habitats of these Pokémon. Kabutops whet their scythes on rocks and other hard objects to keep them as sharp as possible.","Aerodactyl prefer to hunt live prey, so trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League regarding how to arrange for such a diet. Though they are famed for being vicious hunters, these Pokémon are also quite playful and enjoy spending lots of time with their trainers. They will gladly give rides to smaller Pokémon (once the distinction between “friend” and “food” has been made clear).","Munchlax eat constantly and for this reason require a near-constant supply of food. They can be a drain on the wallet to raise, so trainers on a budget should consider other Pokémon. Snorlax also eat enormous amounts of food, but do so in single sittings while sleeping for as long as a month straight. It takes a lot to wake these slumbering giants, though, so as long as they don’t fall asleep in the middle of a street, they should not cause any problems.",NA,NA,NA,"Though all of these Pokémon are naturally found in aquatic environments, they seem to do just fine living solely on land. Both Dratini and Dragonair shed their skin periodically, and hide away after doing so while they are vulnerable. They particularly seem to prefer sheltering themselves behind waterfalls. Dragonite enjoy flying great distances, and will sometimes leave on flights lasting for days simply to stretch their wings.","Though all of these Pokémon are naturally found in aquatic environments, they seem to do just fine living solely on land. Both Dratini and Dragonair shed their skin periodically, and hide away after doing so while they are vulnerable. They particularly seem to prefer sheltering themselves behind waterfalls. Dragonite enjoy flying great distances, and will sometimes leave on flights lasting for days simply to stretch their wings.","Though all of these Pokémon are naturally found in aquatic environments, they seem to do just fine living solely on land. Both Dratini and Dragonair shed their skin periodically, and hide away after doing so while they are vulnerable. They particularly seem to prefer sheltering themselves behind waterfalls. Dragonite enjoy flying great distances, and will sometimes leave on flights lasting for days simply to stretch their wings.",NA,NA,"As Grass-types, all members of this family thrive with ample exposure to sunlight and generous amounts of water. Individuals deprived of sunlight may begin to act sluggish and emit weaker fragrances, while the leaves and flowers of those that are parched may begin to wilt. These Pokémon dislike cold weather, likely due to being both Grass-types and saurians. Chikorita in particular do not do well in arid climates with low humidity.","As Grass-types, all members of this family thrive with ample exposure to sunlight and generous amounts of water. Individuals deprived of sunlight may begin to act sluggish and emit weaker fragrances, while the leaves and flowers of those that are parched may begin to wilt. These Pokémon dislike cold weather, likely due to being both Grass-types and saurians. Chikorita in particular do not do well in arid climates with low humidity.","As Grass-types, all members of this family thrive with ample exposure to sunlight and generous amounts of water. Individuals deprived of sunlight may begin to act sluggish and emit weaker fragrances, while the leaves and flowers of those that are parched may begin to wilt. These Pokémon dislike cold weather, likely due to being both Grass-types and saurians. Chikorita in particular do not do well in arid climates with low humidity.","Cyndaquil are very shy and nervous around strangers, and can be very skittish in new situations. Trainers starting their journies with Cyndaquil may find that it will take a while for their Pokémon to become accustomed to their presence. Quilava are not as bashful as their pre-evolutions, but still dislike large crowds. Typhlosion virtually lack any of the timidness that their pre-evolutions possess.","Cyndaquil are very shy and nervous around strangers, and can be very skittish in new situations. Trainers starting their journies with Cyndaquil may find that it will take a while for their Pokémon to become accustomed to their presence. Quilava are not as bashful as their pre-evolutions, but still dislike large crowds. Typhlosion virtually lack any of the timidness that their pre-evolutions possess.","Cyndaquil are very shy and nervous around strangers, and can be very skittish in new situations. Trainers starting their journies with Cyndaquil may find that it will take a while for their Pokémon to become accustomed to their presence. Quilava are not as bashful as their pre-evolutions, but still dislike large crowds. Typhlosion virtually lack any of the timidness that their pre-evolutions possess.","Members of this family are very hardy and require little care from humans. Unlike many other Water-types, they can survive for long periods of time outside of the water with no ill effects, though they do enjoy swimming over walking. Totodile are voracious eaters that consume lots of food to supply them with energy, but their metabolisms slow down as they evolve; Feraligatr can go for over a week without food after large meals.","Members of this family are very hardy and require little care from humans. Unlike many other Water-types, they can survive for long periods of time outside of the water with no ill effects, though they do enjoy swimming over walking. Totodile are voracious eaters that consume lots of food to supply them with energy, but their metabolisms slow down as they evolve; Feraligatr can go for over a week without food after large meals.","Members of this family are very hardy and require little care from humans. Unlike many other Water-types, they can survive for long periods of time outside of the water with no ill effects, though they do enjoy swimming over walking. Totodile are voracious eaters that consume lots of food to supply them with energy, but their metabolisms slow down as they evolve; Feraligatr can go for over a week without food after large meals.","Sentret are meek Pokémon that dislike unfamiliarity. More importantly, they are intensely social and will behave abnormally, sometimes at the cost of their own health, when separated from their groups. It is recommended that trainers raise young Sentret that do not yet have social ties, so that their “groups” will consist of their trainers and fellow Pokémon. Furret clean their fur frequently and need access to clean water in order to do so.","Sentret are meek Pokémon that dislike unfamiliarity. More importantly, they are intensely social and will behave abnormally, sometimes at the cost of their own health, when separated from their groups. It is recommended that trainers raise young Sentret that do not yet have social ties, so that their “groups” will consist of their trainers and fellow Pokémon. Furret clean their fur frequently and need access to clean water in order to do so.","Because these Pokémon are nocturnal, trainers should not try to disturb them during the day while they are sleeping. They dislike bright light in general, including the light of the sun. Traveling by plane or other modes of transportation that may induce “jet lag” in people can also distress these Pokémon, disrupting their internal clocks. Though they are quick to adjust, prolonged stress in this form can make them physically ill.","Because these Pokémon are nocturnal, trainers should not try to disturb them during the day while they are sleeping. They dislike bright light in general, including the light of the sun. Traveling by plane or other modes of transportation that may induce “jet lag” in people can also distress these Pokémon, disrupting their internal clocks. Though they are quick to adjust, prolonged stress in this form can make them physically ill.","Both Ledyba and Ledian are social Pokémon, and will be distressed when removed from their swarms; Ledyba in particular may stop eating and sleeping when isolated. They are unusually quick in becoming accustomed to new social groups, however, provided they are kept happy and healthy. Ledyba are diurnal, but prefer to sleep with their backs facing the starry night sky. In contrast, Ledian are nocturnal and enjoy flying about in the starlight.","Both Ledyba and Ledian are social Pokémon, and will be distressed when removed from their swarms; Ledyba in particular may stop eating and sleeping when isolated. They are unusually quick in becoming accustomed to new social groups, however, provided they are kept happy and healthy. Ledyba are diurnal, but prefer to sleep with their backs facing the starry night sky. In contrast, Ledian are nocturnal and enjoy flying about in the starlight.","Spinarak and Ariados both are active at night. Though hunters, they are not picky eaters. Spinarak will consume basically anything edible that becomes trapped in their webs, while Ariados will eat any meat they can find as long as it is fresh. Ariados are territorial, but do not mind the presence of other Ariados. Trainers should leave nooks and crannies open for their Spinarak to construct webs, even if they aren’t likely to catch prey, to keep them satisfied.","Spinarak and Ariados both are active at night. Though hunters, they are not picky eaters. Spinarak will consume basically anything edible that becomes trapped in their webs, while Ariados will eat any meat they can find as long as it is fresh. Ariados are territorial, but do not mind the presence of other Ariados. Trainers should leave nooks and crannies open for their Spinarak to construct webs, even if they aren’t likely to catch prey, to keep them satisfied.","None of these Pokémon particularly enjoy bright light. However, Zubat in particular can be harmed by prolonged exposure to sunlight, which can damage their thin skin. Golbat also dislike metal, while both Golbat and Crobat despise Durin Berries for unknown reasons. Golbat are content sucking blood from carcasses, and as such are surprisingly easy to feed. Crobat cannot land on the ground and need branches or other elevated structures in order to perch. Golbat may break their fangs when trying to bite sharp objects, but the fangs will grow back over time.","Though Chinchou can swim in open water, they prefer to keep both of their feet-like fins on a solid surface. They are more comfortable on land than most other Water-types and are often content with simply a small wading pool to keep themselves moist. Lanturn, on the other hand, require large volumes of water to swim freely. They naturally form pods with other Lanturn in the wild, but will readily school with other Pokémon in captivity.","Though Chinchou can swim in open water, they prefer to keep both of their feet-like fins on a solid surface. They are more comfortable on land than most other Water-types and are often content with simply a small wading pool to keep themselves moist. Lanturn, on the other hand, require large volumes of water to swim freely. They naturally form pods with other Lanturn in the wild, but will readily school with other Pokémon in captivity.","Trainers should be aware that Pichu have great difficulty holding electricity for long periods of time, often hurting themselves by discharging too quickly. Pikachu and Raichu have more control over their electrical abilities, however, and as such are easier to care for. They are social Pokémon that, while timid at first, can easily adapt to life with humans. Beginning trainers sometimes choose Pikachu as their starter Pokémon for this reason.","The Cleffa line is incredibly shy and dislike being in crowded situations. For this reason, trainers should not take their Pokémon into urban towns and cities outside of their Poké Balls. Cleffa enjoy dancing during and after meteor showers, while Clefairy and Clefable do the same during full moons. They should not be interrupted during their astronomical rituals, because they will become anxious if they cannot complete them correctly. As rare but timid Pok","Wigglytuff fur is hypoallergenic, a plus for trainers with allergies. Wigglytuff themselves, though, are sensitive to dust, which can irritate their huge eyes. Igglybuff and Jigglypuff can be blown about by strong winds, so they should remain indoors in rough weather. Igglypuff have weak vocal cords, but will continue to practice singing even when sore; their trainers should intervene when this happens to give them time to recover. Jigglypuff also may not stop singing when faced with foes they cannot put to sleep; trainers should be ready to stop them in this event. Since they enjoy being around people, they are excellent choices for urban trainers.","Togepi imprint on the first living thing they see, and for this reason can only be raised by trainers that have hatched them from eggs. They are very needy as baby Pokémon, and have to be fed and soothed often; their shells are also fragile and can crack from rough handling. All members of this line greatly dislike anger and hostility. Being trapped around these emotions greatly distresses them. Togekiss are clumsy on the ground and require plenty of open air to fly around freely.","Togepi imprint on the first living thing they see, and for this reason can only be raised by trainers that have hatched them from eggs. They are very needy as baby Pokémon, and have to be fed and soothed often; their shells are also fragile and can crack from rough handling. All members of this line greatly dislike anger and hostility. Being trapped around these emotions greatly distresses them. Togekiss are clumsy on the ground and require plenty of open air to fly around freely.","These Pokémon are rather hardy, thriving in both arid and tropical conditions (though they are not present in temperate climates, perhaps due to excess competition). Natu enjoy hopping around on trees with low-hanging branches. Xatu are virtually expressionless and don’t visibly react to pain or pleasure. They seem to become ever-so-slightly agitated if they are physically prevented from completing their wing messages, however.","These Pokémon are rather hardy, thriving in both arid and tropical conditions (though they are not present in temperate climates, perhaps due to excess competition). Natu enjoy hopping around on trees with low-hanging branches. Xatu are virtually expressionless and don’t visibly react to pain or pleasure. They seem to become ever-so-slightly agitated if they are physically prevented from completing their wing messages, however.","Mareep often form flocks in the wild, but are content being solitary as well. They will shed their wool periodically to prevent themselves from storing too much electricity, but trainers and aid them by shearing them every so often. Flaaffy don’t shed as often and take meticulous care of their wool, grooming it for long periods of time. The bulbs on the tails of Ampharos will dim or flicker when they are ill; those of Flaaffy and Mareep will brighten as they charge.","Mareep often form flocks in the wild, but are content being solitary as well. They will shed their wool periodically to prevent themselves from storing too much electricity, but trainers and aid them by shearing them every so often. Flaaffy don’t shed as often and take meticulous care of their wool, grooming it for long periods of time. The bulbs on the tails of Ampharos will dim or flicker when they are ill; those of Flaaffy and Mareep will brighten as they charge.","Mareep often form flocks in the wild, but are content being solitary as well. They will shed their wool periodically to prevent themselves from storing too much electricity, but trainers and aid them by shearing them every so often. Flaaffy don’t shed as often and take meticulous care of their wool, grooming it for long periods of time. The bulbs on the tails of Ampharos will dim or flicker when they are ill; those of Flaaffy and Mareep will brighten as they charge.","Mareep often form flocks in the wild, but are content being solitary as well. They will shed their wool periodically to prevent themselves from storing too much electricity, but trainers and aid them by shearing them every so often. Flaaffy don’t shed as often and take meticulous care of their wool, grooming it for long periods of time. The bulbs on the tails of Ampharos will dim or flicker when they are ill; those of Flaaffy and Mareep will brighten as they charge.","Azurill are not very good swimmers (perhaps explaining their lack of a Water-typing), but enjoy playing in shallow water. They are prone to crying easily, particularly when frightened or hungry. Marill and Azumarill require diets high in oily fish in order to maintain their water-repellant fur and buoyant tails. They are also sensitive to high-pitched or loud sounds because of their delicate senses of hearing.","Azurill are not very good swimmers (perhaps explaining their lack of a Water-typing), but enjoy playing in shallow water. They are prone to crying easily, particularly when frightened or hungry. Marill and Azumarill require diets high in oily fish in order to maintain their water-repellant fur and buoyant tails. They are also sensitive to high-pitched or loud sounds because of their delicate senses of hearing.","Both Pokémon are very skittish and quick to flee in the face of danger. They are both also deathly afraid of water and cannot tolerate even minute amounts of the substance. When Bonsly cry, they are actually expelling excess liquid from their bodies and are not actually (usually) upset. Even high humidity can disturb these Pokémon. Naturally, they should be kept inside at all times during rainy weather. ","All members of the Poliwag family must keep their skin moist at all times, as they will suffocate if it dries out. Poliwag are clumsy on land and will stumble often. so trainers should keep a close eye on them out of the water. Poliwrath enjoy practicing their swimming technique, so trainers should take them out to large lakes often. Poliwag, Poliwhirl, and Poliwrath are entranced by the sound of Politoed croaking; trainers should recall their Pokémon if they hear the distinct sound.","These Pokémon thrive in breezy weather and cannot travel well without wind. For this reason, they do not do well indoors unless the rooms are well-ventilated or there are many fans in place. Strong winds carry the danger of blowing these light Pokémon away. Hoppip and Skiploom also require sunlight to photosynthesize. They prefer warm climates to cooler ones. Finally, wet weather can waterlog these Pokémon, making them too heavy to float.","These Pokémon thrive in breezy weather and cannot travel well without wind. For this reason, they do not do well indoors unless the rooms are well-ventilated or there are many fans in place. Strong winds carry the danger of blowing these light Pokémon away. Hoppip and Skiploom also require sunlight to photosynthesize. They prefer warm climates to cooler ones. Finally, wet weather can waterlog these Pokémon, making them too heavy to float.","These Pokémon thrive in breezy weather and cannot travel well without wind. For this reason, they do not do well indoors unless the rooms are well-ventilated or there are many fans in place. Strong winds carry the danger of blowing these light Pokémon away. Hoppip and Skiploom also require sunlight to photosynthesize. They prefer warm climates to cooler ones. Finally, wet weather can waterlog these Pokémon, making them too heavy to float.","Neither of these Pokémon do well on the ground, as their weak legs are not adapted to support their weight for long periods of time. Plenty of branches or overhanging rods allow them to travel about with ease. These Pokémon are social and naturally form groups with their own kind in the wild. However, they are very playful and quick to make friends with strangers in new environments. They enjoy solving puzzles, particularly when rewards are involved.","Sunkern are weak and virtually defenseless on their own. They try their best to conserve their energy and do not act unless they absolutely have to. Keeping a Sunkern in a warm, sunny place with a steady supply of water should be enough to keep it happy. Sunflora are also heavily reliant on the sun, and should be let outside for as long as it is out. In gloomy weather an artificial sun lamp can function as a substitute, but Sunflora very much prefer natural sunlight.","Sunkern are weak and virtually defenseless on their own. They try their best to conserve their energy and do not act unless they absolutely have to. Keeping a Sunkern in a warm, sunny place with a steady supply of water should be enough to keep it happy. Sunflora are also heavily reliant on the sun, and should be let outside for as long as it is out. In gloomy weather an artificial sun lamp can function as a substitute, but Sunflora very much prefer natural sunlight.","Yanma and Yanmega are great fliers, but do need to rest on perches every once in a while to recuperate the large amounts of energy they spend beating their wings so quickly. Since these Yanmega are not at all fickle when it comes to food, they will be satisfied with fresh meat as opposed to live prey. They particularly enjoy being tossed their meals so that they can catch them in the air with their powerful jaws.","Both of these Pokémon are amphibious and need to keep themselves moist in order to survive. Both prefer cool, but not freezing water; Wooper can actually tolerate a wider range of temperatures than their evolutions. They are not exceptional swimmers and cannot fight strong currents well, and for this reason prefer stagnant or slow-moving bodies of water. Wooper like to bury themselves in sand underwater when frightened.","Both of these Pokémon are amphibious and need to keep themselves moist in order to survive. Both prefer cool, but not freezing water; Wooper can actually tolerate a wider range of temperatures than their evolutions. They are not exceptional swimmers and cannot fight strong currents well, and for this reason prefer stagnant or slow-moving bodies of water. Wooper like to bury themselves in sand underwater when frightened.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","In the wild, Murkrow are often flock Pokémon under the leadership of Honchkrow. They seem to enjoy being alone, however, especially when freed from the strict orders of an unforgiving Honchkrow. Both Murkrow and Honchkrow are active in the darkness. Murkrow enjoy hunting for and collecting shiny things, while Honchkrow dislike doing work themselves and will try to command other Pokémon to work for them.","Slowpoke and Slowbro are not active Pokémon, are are content lounging around doing absolutely nothing. They prefer being near water, but will not be stressed if placed in drier environments. Slowking similarly do not need much physical simulation. However, they are intensely intellectual and philosophical. Books and movies will keep their minds active; they are even known to stare at paintings for hours on end in order to decipher meaning in the artwork.","Neither of these Pokémon can stand light, becoming dull and immobile when exposed to it. They are nocturnal and are only active once the sun sets. Large cities are not ideal places to raise Misdreavus and Mismagius because of the abundance of street lamps and other light sources. Like their relatives Banette, trained individuals can be taught to feed on positive emotions like happiness instead of negative ones like fear.","Unown are naturally found in large swarms in the wild. They do just fine alone when captured, however; it should be noted that lone Unown are weak and unremarkable in terms of battling capabilities. They enjoy spending most of their time attached to flat surfaces such as walls. Most trainers should not have a problem with raising multiple Unown; their reality-bending effects only become apparently when swarms approach the late hundreds in number.","Both of these Pokémon are incredibly easy to take care of. Wobbuffet are especially so, as they prefer to be alone. They are perfectly happy if left unattended in a dark room with an ample supply of Berries. Wynaut are more social Pokémon that like being in large groups. They can get a bit rough when playing, however, and should be kept away from more fragile Pokémon (and children). They also enjoy the darkness, but do not detest light like Wobbuffet.","Girafarig are not the easiest Pokémon for novice trainers to take care of. They are rather easily spooked, causing them to run away or defend themselves with Psychic-type attacks. Their rear heads also can be very dangerous, as they will attack anything unfamiliar that comes too near. Once they become accustomed to their trainers’ scents, however, they will stop lashing out at them. Girafarig are comfortable both in herds as well as alone.","Pineco are relatively self-sufficient; they will adhere to any tree with sufficient leaf coverage and proceed to surround themselves with bark and resin, feeding themselves by capturing insects. Foretress are a bit harder to care for as they cannot produce their own resin, but spreading Honey near them is sufficient to attract bugs for them; they are hardier than Pineco and can not only withstand harsher weather conditions, but also go for longer without a meal.","Pineco are relatively self-sufficient; they will adhere to any tree with sufficient leaf coverage and proceed to surround themselves with bark and resin, feeding themselves by capturing insects. Foretress are a bit harder to care for as they cannot produce their own resin, but spreading Honey near them is sufficient to attract bugs for them; they are hardier than Pineco and can not only withstand harsher weather conditions, but also go for longer without a meal.","Dunsparce are adapted to pitch-black conditions and dislike both heat and light. They also seem to prefer moist environments, though they can survive in drier ones as well. Dunsparce rest and hide in subterranean burrows, so the floor of their habitats should be composed of soil or soft clay. They are sensitive to vibrations, so they shouldn’t be kept close to highways or other places where the ground often shakes.","Gligar jump from high places in order to glide, so trainers should provide them with plenty of perches. They tend to be more active during the night, but can remain active during the day; Gliscor, on the other hand, are strictly nocturnal and like to hide in dark places until the sun sets. They need lots of open space to fly and should be let outside during the night. Trainers should contact their local Pokémon League branch to discuss their Pokémon’s feeding routines.","These Pokémon are rather clumsy aboveground, as their bodies are adapted to tunneling through solid earth. They will leave large holes in the ground as they burrow, which can be freely used by other subterranean Pokémon. These Pokémon should be kept away from magnets, which can disrupt the magnetic organs in their heads. Onix are particularly weak to water and stay away from the substance at all costs.","Snubbull and Granbull are well-suited to domestic life, so most trainers should have little trouble caring for them. They enjoy playing with people and Pokémon. Both are easily scared, however, and should be kept out of tense situations. Many people mistakenly believe that Snubbull require lots of attention and are very fickle, and the media portrays them as Pokémon for the wealthy. In reality, most Snubbull are perfectly happy as long as they are loved and cared for.","Snubbull and Granbull are well-suited to domestic life, so most trainers should have little trouble caring for them. They enjoy playing with people and Pokémon. Both are easily scared, however, and should be kept out of tense situations. Many people mistakenly believe that Snubbull require lots of attention and are very fickle, and the media portrays them as Pokémon for the wealthy. In reality, most Snubbull are perfectly happy as long as they are loved and cared for.","These Pokémon are pelagic and require large amounts of open water. Currents are their worst enemy, as they are unable to fight against even moderate flows of water. Because of this, most traditional tank filters cannot be used, as they produce currents that are too strong for Qwilfish. Manual cleaning is generally necessary; these Pokémon should be recalled during cleanings to prevent accidents with their spines. As one may have guessed, Qwilfish are not recommended for novices.","Scyther are naturally pack hunters, but handle isolation better than most other social Pokémon (lone individuals tend to be more aggressive, however). Scizor are solitary by nature and dislike being in large, noisy groups. Both Pokémon prefer to catch live prey but are content with fresh meat. They enjoy honing their hunting skills by chasing down toys or slicing trees, however. Although Scyther can fly, they do not seem to suffer any ill effects if they are unable to do so.","Shuckle are very hardy, thanks to their incredibly tough shells. They require a damp environment, many rocks to hide in, and easy access to Berries; other than these conditions, they can endure practically any other issues by hiding in their shells. Individual Shuckle have their own preferences as to what Berries they enjoy most, but no known Berries are known to harm or even turn off a hungry Shuckle.","Despite their large size, Heracross are relatively easy to care for. They are very benign and easy to feed, as Combee Honey can be bought at most Poké Marts. Around mating season, however, these Pokémon can get a bit restless, even if no suitable mates are around. Trainers should let their Pokémon duel other Heracross or at least participate more often in battles to work off their extra energy.","Sneasel live and hunt in pairs (which notably can be either mixed- or same-gendered), and Weavile do so in packs. As such, they are social creatures, despite their ruthlessness in hunting. They will become agitated when isolated for long periods of time, so trainers should let them spend plenty of time with other Pokémon. Because of their sharp claws, however, it is advised to keep them alongside hardier species. Sneasel in particular will form close bonds with a single partner.","Teddiursa are very mild-mannered, oftentimes oblivious to their surroundings. They often focus their attention on Honey, failing to notice potential dangers around them. Some believe that this may be why Ursaring parents are so protective of their offspring. Ursaring themselves, on the other hand, can for the most part take care of themselves. Unusually cold weather makes them sluggish and can trigger their body to prepare for hibernation, however.","Teddiursa are very mild-mannered, oftentimes oblivious to their surroundings. They often focus their attention on Honey, failing to notice potential dangers around them. Some believe that this may be why Ursaring parents are so protective of their offspring. Ursaring themselves, on the other hand, can for the most part take care of themselves. Unusually cold weather makes them sluggish and can trigger their body to prepare for hibernation, however.","Slugma and Magcargo are most at home in very warm climates; even the warmest areas inhabitable by humans, however, are normally not hot enough for them. Poké Marts carry a more temperature-safe, nontoxic magma substitute that can slowly be introduced into these Pokémon so that they no longer harden at cooler temperatures. Though it is still very hot, it will also allow them to travel on hard ground without immediately combusting whatever is beneath them.","Slugma and Magcargo are most at home in very warm climates; even the warmest areas inhabitable by humans, however, are normally not hot enough for them. Poké Marts carry a more temperature-safe, nontoxic magma substitute that can slowly be introduced into these Pokémon so that they no longer harden at cooler temperatures. Though it is still very hot, it will also allow them to travel on hard ground without immediately combusting whatever is beneath them.","Because of their thick coats, these Pokémon fare very poorly in warm environments. Individuals kept even in temperate climates should have their coats trimmed to prevent overheating. Mamoswine tusks are made of ice and will melt when exposed to moderate heat. They are difficult Pokémon to raise outside of arctic environments, but can be trained to chill the air around them to keep their tusks from melting, though doing so for a while will tire them out.","Because of their thick coats, these Pokémon fare very poorly in warm environments. Individuals kept even in temperate climates should have their coats trimmed to prevent overheating. Mamoswine tusks are made of ice and will melt when exposed to moderate heat. They are difficult Pokémon to raise outside of arctic environments, but can be trained to chill the air around them to keep their tusks from melting, though doing so for a while will tire them out.","The average trainer would have a difficult time raising a Corsola. These Pokémon are very social, as one would guess from their colony-forming habits. They also fickle regarding water temperature, salinity, purity, and even sunlight--although they aren’t plants, Corsola become frail and weak when deprived of natural sunlight. Most notably, their horns will fade to a pale white if left in darkness before being treated.","Trainers should not try to raise young Remoraid, who either rely on a Mantine host or a large school (usually around a growing Mantyke) for protection and food. Older Remoraid, though, are very easy to raise; they don’t school and can easily be fed, catching insects flying or resting above the water. Octillery are content hiding in rocks or underwater pots. They are territorial and enjoy being left alone, although they seem to have fun solving puzzles and playing with toys.","Trainers should not try to raise young Remoraid, who either rely on a Mantine host or a large school (usually around a growing Mantyke) for protection and food. Older Remoraid, though, are very easy to raise; they don’t school and can easily be fed, catching insects flying or resting above the water. Octillery are content hiding in rocks or underwater pots. They are territorial and enjoy being left alone, although they seem to have fun solving puzzles and playing with toys.","Delibird are naturally cold-weather Pokémon that prefer the thin atmosphere of high altitudes. However, they can survive in a wide range of climates, an adaptation that was necessary to allow them to travel as far as they do to gather food. Even when food is abundant, Delibird instinctually try to stuff their tails as full as possible when they come across it, so trainers should adjust feeding schedules accordingly to account for stored food.​","Mantine are not recommended for most beginning or even intermediate trainers; these large, aquatic creatures require vast amounts of open water in order to swim freely. Mantyke are considerably easier, but can be quite a handful because of how playful they are. Although they can be raised without Remoraid, trainers should never separate a Remoraid and a Mantyke or Mantine that have already bonded; doing so would induce great distress in both Pokémon.","It is surprisingly easy to placate a Skarmory; they will refrain from attacking those that give them food, seemingly knowing to not bite the hand that feeds them. Earning one’s trust and respect, however, is another matter. These Pokémon will only obey the orders of those that prove to be tougher than them in battle. Once their loyalty is earned, though, Skarmory are very dependable allies even in the face of imminent danger. They should be kept from water, which can rust them.","Houndour should not be confused with Growlithe or Lillipup; they are feral by nature with the same distrust towards humans as most other wild Pokémon. They are pack creatures that cannot survive on their own. Houndoom fare a bit better in solitude, but lone individuals are much more irritable and ill-tempered. Trainers with happy Houndour and Houndoom have taught them to view other Pokémon as “pack members,” who they will defend with all of their might.","Houndour should not be confused with Growlithe or Lillipup; they are feral by nature with the same distrust towards humans as most other wild Pokémon. They are pack creatures that cannot survive on their own. Houndoom fare a bit better in solitude, but lone individuals are much more irritable and ill-tempered. Trainers with happy Houndour and Houndoom have taught them to view other Pokémon as “pack members,” who they will defend with all of their might.","These Pokémon are sensitive to water conditions, particularly to temperature and purity. Polluted or excessively cold water can easily make them ill. Kingdra need very large volumes of water to thrive. These Pokémon all prefer calm waters. Branched corals are also a necessity in their habitats, particularly for Horsea and Seadra, as they will latch onto branches while sleeping and resting. Calcium is particularly important for Seadra in order to keep their spines healthy.","Large, open spaces are a necessity for these Pokémon. Donphan mainly travel through rolling and cannot stop easily, so they need plenty of room to gradually decelerate. Phanpy love to charge about and similarly should not be kept in cramped areas. They generally fare well with other Pokémon; Phanpy in particular enjoy company. However, they should be kept away from fragile species because they play rough and can easily injure frailer Pokémon.","Large, open spaces are a necessity for these Pokémon. Donphan mainly travel through rolling and cannot stop easily, so they need plenty of room to gradually decelerate. Phanpy love to charge about and similarly should not be kept in cramped areas. They generally fare well with other Pokémon; Phanpy in particular enjoy company. However, they should be kept away from fragile species because they play rough and can easily injure frailer Pokémon.","Being the first instance of a virtual Pokémon, Porygon are rather clunky and unwieldy. They do not do much and can be slow at responding to commands. Porygon2 are more streamlined, and for the most part are self-sustaining. Porygon-Z can be a danger to themselves when glitching out, so trainers should be prepared to recall them into their Poké Balls if they do so. All members of the line should be returned periodically to their Poké Balls so that they can recharge.","These Pokémon herd by nature, so it can be difficult to raise a single one. Young Stantler are particularly skittish if separated from their herds, while older ones are less easily scared. They will become more docile and calm once they get used to their surroundings. New situations, though, will often spook them, so only skilled trainers should attempt to raise them if they are planning to travel around the region. ","Smeargle are at home in urban environments and make great Pokémon for metropolitan trainers. They can keep themselves occupied for days at a time with nothing more than Berries, water, and a few canvasses. Smeargle love teaching people and Pokemon how to paint, though they may get irritated at those who are slow to catch on. Trainers should take them out to art museums or even just to visit other Smeargle--they may be inspired to paint something along the way.","Trainers should allow their Tyrogue will engage in a variety of different fighting styles so that they can see which they prefer the most. They enjoy strict training regimens, and will become anxious if trainers try to let them plan their own schedules. Their evolutions, however, are self-sufficient. Many gyms will gladly allow these Pokémon to practice in their facilities free of charge in exchange for working as trainers or sparring partners.","Trainers should allow their Tyrogue will engage in a variety of different fighting styles so that they can see which they prefer the most. They enjoy strict training regimens, and will become anxious if trainers try to let them plan their own schedules. Their evolutions, however, are self-sufficient. Many gyms will gladly allow these Pokémon to practice in their facilities free of charge in exchange for working as trainers or sparring partners.","Both Smoochum and Jynx have thin, sensitive skin. They will break out into rashes from mild irritants like dirt, so they try to keep as clean and moisturized as possible. Warm, dry air will quickly dehydrate them and cause their skin to crack. ","As baby Pokémon, Elekid can be a handful at times. They often have short bursts of energy, during which they will spin their arms wildly to charge up. Doing so quickly tires them out, however, and they have to rest immediately afterwards. Electabuzz and Electivire are comparatively low-maintenance. As long as they are provided with a steady source of electricity (usually from a generator), they are largely able to take care of themselves.","Although these Pokémon are able to acclimate to moderate climates with few problems, they should not be brought out in cold weather, which can turn them sluggish and lethargic. They enjoy taking baths in hot lava, so trainers should let them explore near active volcanoes (from a far, safe distance of course) if possible. Magby will expel dull red flames or sooty smoke when they are sick or ill.","As domesticated Pokémon, Miltank are incredibly easy for even beginning trainers to raise. They are friendly towards humans, often sharing their milk with them. Miltank also seem to have instinctual maternal instincts that make them protective of young children and Pokémon. Though they naturally form herds, many trainers or even families raise lone Miltank without much difficulty of stress on the Pokémon.",NA,NA,NA,NA,"This family of Pokémon is not at all recommended for beginning trainers. Larvitar eat almost constantly, and require ludicrous amounts of dirt to be satiated. This usually is a very costly endeavor. Pupitar are thankfully easy to care for, though they are surprisingly mobile. Tyranitar are very aggressive towards strangers; it takes a skilled trainer to restrain them from lashing out against foreign people and Pokémon.","This family of Pokémon is not at all recommended for beginning trainers. Larvitar eat almost constantly, and require ludicrous amounts of dirt to be satiated. This usually is a very costly endeavor. Pupitar are thankfully easy to care for, though they are surprisingly mobile. Tyranitar are very aggressive towards strangers; it takes a skilled trainer to restrain them from lashing out against foreign people and Pokémon.","This family of Pokémon is not at all recommended for beginning trainers. Larvitar eat almost constantly, and require ludicrous amounts of dirt to be satiated. This usually is a very costly endeavor. Pupitar are thankfully easy to care for, though they are surprisingly mobile. Tyranitar are very aggressive towards strangers; it takes a skilled trainer to restrain them from lashing out against foreign people and Pokémon.",NA,NA,NA,"Treecko and its evolutions are regarded as the easiest of all of the Hoenn starters to raise, if not one of the asiest Pokémon in the region to train in general. They are laid-back in personality, comfortable in temperate to warm climates, and easy to feed for most trainers. They do dislike the cold and can become ill if deprived of sunlight for extended periods of time, but otherwise are hardy enough to survive in most conditions.","Treecko and its evolutions are regarded as the easiest of all of the Hoenn starters to raise, if not one of the asiest Pokémon in the region to train in general. They are laid-back in personality, comfortable in temperate to warm climates, and easy to feed for most trainers. They do dislike the cold and can become ill if deprived of sunlight for extended periods of time, but otherwise are hardy enough to survive in most conditions.","Treecko and its evolutions are regarded as the easiest of all of the Hoenn starters to raise, if not one of the asiest Pokémon in the region to train in general. They are laid-back in personality, comfortable in temperate to warm climates, and easy to feed for most trainers. They do dislike the cold and can become ill if deprived of sunlight for extended periods of time, but otherwise are hardy enough to survive in most conditions.","Torchic can be a handful to raise; they are clumsy and often hurt themselves in accidents. They are also afraid of the dark and of sleeping alone. Combusken discipline themselves with strict training regimens, which trainers should respect (even if it means being woken up at the crack of dawn). Blaziken burn out their feathers periodically, and should be kept out of battle until they grow back so they do not overheat.","Torchic can be a handful to raise; they are clumsy and often hurt themselves in accidents. They are also afraid of the dark and of sleeping alone. Combusken discipline themselves with strict training regimens, which trainers should respect (even if it means being woken up at the crack of dawn). Blaziken burn out their feathers periodically, and should be kept out of battle until they grow back so they do not overheat.","Torchic can be a handful to raise; they are clumsy and often hurt themselves in accidents. They are also afraid of the dark and of sleeping alone. Combusken discipline themselves with strict training regimens, which trainers should respect (even if it means being woken up at the crack of dawn). Blaziken burn out their feathers periodically, and should be kept out of battle until they grow back so they do not overheat.","All members of this line need to keep their skin and especially gills moist. Marshtomp and Swampert have special water-retaining slime coating their bodies that enable them to stay out of the water for longer periods of time than Mudkip, but all of them will become lethargic and ill if their skin dries out. These Pokémon actually prefer muddy water; they have adapted to swim and navigate in such conditions. ","All members of this line need to keep their skin and especially gills moist. Marshtomp and Swampert have special water-retaining slime coating their bodies that enable them to stay out of the water for longer periods of time than Mudkip, but all of them will become lethargic and ill if their skin dries out. These Pokémon actually prefer muddy water; they have adapted to swim and navigate in such conditions. ","All members of this line need to keep their skin and especially gills moist. Marshtomp and Swampert have special water-retaining slime coating their bodies that enable them to stay out of the water for longer periods of time than Mudkip, but all of them will become lethargic and ill if their skin dries out. These Pokémon actually prefer muddy water; they have adapted to swim and navigate in such conditions. ","Poochyena and Mightyena are pack Pokémon that operate with a hierarchy of leadership. Trainers who catch Mightyena must prove their dominance in battle, and continue to maintain it by eating first and asserting control in everyday tasks. Poochyena are far easier to train; offering them food is usually enough to earn their loyalty. Both Pokémon are very playful, though, and very much enjoy running around and roughhousing with their trainers.","Poochyena and Mightyena are pack Pokémon that operate with a hierarchy of leadership. Trainers who catch Mightyena must prove their dominance in battle, and continue to maintain it by eating first and asserting control in everyday tasks. Poochyena are far easier to train; offering them food is usually enough to earn their loyalty. Both Pokémon are very playful, though, and very much enjoy running around and roughhousing with their trainers.","Zigzagoon are good choices for beginning trainers. They are easy to care for and can easily adapt to life with humans. They can seem scatter-brained at first because of how easily distracted they are by their surroundings, but trainers quickly learn that they are just very curious, and usually let them fully explore what is around them. Linoone have great difficulty turning, so trainers should not walk with them on curved roads; they will likely crash very often.","Zigzagoon are good choices for beginning trainers. They are easy to care for and can easily adapt to life with humans. They can seem scatter-brained at first because of how easily distracted they are by their surroundings, but trainers quickly learn that they are just very curious, and usually let them fully explore what is around them. Linoone have great difficulty turning, so trainers should not walk with them on curved roads; they will likely crash very often.","Wurmple are easy to care for; given food and water, they will eat constantly until it is time to evolve. Cascoon and Silcoon are even lower-maintenance, as they don’t even eat (though they may drink). Beautifly love to flit about in fields of flowers, but are very aggressive towards other Beautifly and should be kept far away from them. Conversely, Dustox are swarming Pokémon that love the company of other Dustox.","Wurmple are easy to care for; given food and water, they will eat constantly until it is time to evolve. Cascoon and Silcoon are even lower-maintenance, as they don’t even eat (though they may drink). Beautifly love to flit about in fields of flowers, but are very aggressive towards other Beautifly and should be kept far away from them. Conversely, Dustox are swarming Pokémon that love the company of other Dustox.","Wurmple are easy to care for; given food and water, they will eat constantly until it is time to evolve. Cascoon and Silcoon are even lower-maintenance, as they don’t even eat (though they may drink). Beautifly love to flit about in fields of flowers, but are very aggressive towards other Beautifly and should be kept far away from them. Conversely, Dustox are swarming Pokémon that love the company of other Dustox.","Wurmple are easy to care for; given food and water, they will eat constantly until it is time to evolve. Cascoon and Silcoon are even lower-maintenance, as they don’t even eat (though they may drink). Beautifly love to flit about in fields of flowers, but are very aggressive towards other Beautifly and should be kept far away from them. Conversely, Dustox are swarming Pokémon that love the company of other Dustox.","Wurmple are easy to care for; given food and water, they will eat constantly until it is time to evolve. Cascoon and Silcoon are even lower-maintenance, as they don’t even eat (though they may drink). Beautifly love to flit about in fields of flowers, but are very aggressive towards other Beautifly and should be kept far away from them. Conversely, Dustox are swarming Pokémon that love the company of other Dustox.","Lotad require bodies of still water deep enough for them to float in. They can tolerate murky ponds, but need to drink clean water to stay healthy (Lotad in dirty environments may collect rain water in their pads to do so). Lombre are more active swimmers and as such prefer larger ponds; however, they also spend more time on land. Ludicolo are perfectly comfortable living terrestrially as long as they remain somewhat close to fresh water.","Lotad require bodies of still water deep enough for them to float in. They can tolerate murky ponds, but need to drink clean water to stay healthy (Lotad in dirty environments may collect rain water in their pads to do so). Lombre are more active swimmers and as such prefer larger ponds; however, they also spend more time on land. Ludicolo are perfectly comfortable living terrestrially as long as they remain somewhat close to fresh water.","Lotad require bodies of still water deep enough for them to float in. They can tolerate murky ponds, but need to drink clean water to stay healthy (Lotad in dirty environments may collect rain water in their pads to do so). Lombre are more active swimmers and as such prefer larger ponds; however, they also spend more time on land. Ludicolo are perfectly comfortable living terrestrially as long as they remain somewhat close to fresh water.","Seedot are practically self-sufficient. They will attach themselves to a tree until almost ready to evolve with no need for extra care (though trainers should be wary of any tricks the Pokémon try to pull on them). Nuzleaf are surprisingly at home in urban environments, though they do prefer quiet forests to bustling cities. Shiftry dislike and actively avoid crowds; they will retreat to forests in solitude if given the chance, and their trainers should grant them the freedom to do so.","Seedot are practically self-sufficient. They will attach themselves to a tree until almost ready to evolve with no need for extra care (though trainers should be wary of any tricks the Pokémon try to pull on them). Nuzleaf are surprisingly at home in urban environments, though they do prefer quiet forests to bustling cities. Shiftry dislike and actively avoid crowds; they will retreat to forests in solitude if given the chance, and their trainers should grant them the freedom to do so.","Seedot are practically self-sufficient. They will attach themselves to a tree until almost ready to evolve with no need for extra care (though trainers should be wary of any tricks the Pokémon try to pull on them). Nuzleaf are surprisingly at home in urban environments, though they do prefer quiet forests to bustling cities. Shiftry dislike and actively avoid crowds; they will retreat to forests in solitude if given the chance, and their trainers should grant them the freedom to do so.","Taillow can be a handful to raise for unprepared trainers. They dislike being coddled and will try to be as independent as possible; however, they usually have trouble finding food, causing them to cry while also refusing to be fed. Trainers should leave behind strategically-placed morsels for their Taillow to “hunt” for themselves. Swellow, on the other hand, are very self-sufficient and require little more than open sky and clean water. These Pokémon dislike snow and cold weather.","Taillow can be a handful to raise for unprepared trainers. They dislike being coddled and will try to be as independent as possible; however, they usually have trouble finding food, causing them to cry while also refusing to be fed. Trainers should leave behind strategically-placed morsels for their Taillow to “hunt” for themselves. Swellow, on the other hand, are very self-sufficient and require little more than open sky and clean water. These Pokémon dislike snow and cold weather.","Wingull are a hardy species that can be raised practically anywhere near the sea. They can hunt and clean themselves by diving into the water. Their raucous calls can be annoying to some, however. Pelipper are similarly low-maintenance, content spending their days bobbing in the waves. Inland trainers should not try to raise these Pokémon, though; lakes will not substitute for the vast seas they prefer. Both evolutions can be trained to send messages across vast distances.","Wingull are a hardy species that can be raised practically anywhere near the sea. They can hunt and clean themselves by diving into the water. Their raucous calls can be annoying to some, however. Pelipper are similarly low-maintenance, content spending their days bobbing in the waves. Inland trainers should not try to raise these Pokémon, though; lakes will not substitute for the vast seas they prefer. Both evolutions can be trained to send messages across vast distances.","Ralts is perhaps one of the hardest Pokémon for the average person to raise; they are extremely timid, teleporting away from the slightest sign of anger. This usually exasperates their trainers, causing them to flee even more, and so on. Not everyone can raise these Pokémon, as they require the utmost patience and optimism to properly develop. Both Gallade and Gardevoir, however, are extremely loyal and powerful Pokémon any trainer would be lucky to have.","Ralts is perhaps one of the hardest Pokémon for the average person to raise; they are extremely timid, teleporting away from the slightest sign of anger. This usually exasperates their trainers, causing them to flee even more, and so on. Not everyone can raise these Pokémon, as they require the utmost patience and optimism to properly develop. Both Gallade and Gardevoir, however, are extremely loyal and powerful Pokémon any trainer would be lucky to have.","Ralts is perhaps one of the hardest Pokémon for the average person to raise; they are extremely timid, teleporting away from the slightest sign of anger. This usually exasperates their trainers, causing them to flee even more, and so on. Not everyone can raise these Pokémon, as they require the utmost patience and optimism to properly develop. Both Gallade and Gardevoir, however, are extremely loyal and powerful Pokémon any trainer would be lucky to have.","These Pokémon thrive near sources of stagnant fresh water. Surskit are surprisingly adequate at terrestrial travel, though they fare best on water. They are mobile creatures that dislike sitting still for long. Masquerain also prefer to be near water, even though they no longer stand on the liquid itself. Neither Pokémon can tolerate cold weather, and Masquerain also cannot fly in the rain.","These Pokémon thrive near sources of stagnant fresh water. Surskit are surprisingly adequate at terrestrial travel, though they fare best on water. They are mobile creatures that dislike sitting still for long. Masquerain also prefer to be near water, even though they no longer stand on the liquid itself. Neither Pokémon can tolerate cold weather, and Masquerain also cannot fly in the rain.","Shroomish require dark, damp conditions in order to thrive. Trainers that maintain compost piles will find that their Shroomish want nothing more than to dive in and bury themselves in the decay. Breloom also prefer the shade, but are not as intolerant of light as Shroomish. They are surprisingly self-sufficient and low-maintenance, and seem to be content as long as they have enough food to eat.","Shroomish require dark, damp conditions in order to thrive. Trainers that maintain compost piles will find that their Shroomish want nothing more than to dive in and bury themselves in the decay. Breloom also prefer the shade, but are not as intolerant of light as Shroomish. They are surprisingly self-sufficient and low-maintenance, and seem to be content as long as they have enough food to eat.","Although they naturally form colonies, these Pokémon fare surprisingly well alone. Slakoth are inactive creatures that don’t require much attention at all. Vigoroth, though, can be very stressful to raise; they never stop moving, so trainers should occupy their time with as many games and sports as possible. Slaking require enormous amounts of food, but like Slakoth, otherwise don’t do much other than laze around.","Although they naturally form colonies, these Pokémon fare surprisingly well alone. Slakoth are inactive creatures that don’t require much attention at all. Vigoroth, though, can be very stressful to raise; they never stop moving, so trainers should occupy their time with as many games and sports as possible. Slaking require enormous amounts of food, but like Slakoth, otherwise don’t do much other than laze around.","Although they naturally form colonies, these Pokémon fare surprisingly well alone. Slakoth are inactive creatures that don’t require much attention at all. Vigoroth, though, can be very stressful to raise; they never stop moving, so trainers should occupy their time with as many games and sports as possible. Slaking require enormous amounts of food, but like Slakoth, otherwise don’t do much other than laze around.","These Pokémon are not recommended for beginners. Nincada are subterranean and can’t tolerate light. Ninjask are very difficult to train, refusing orders until their trainers prove worthy of their loyalty. They will challenge them to races and obstacle courses to test their agility; trainers will have to use their wit to outsmart their Ninjask, as beating them in speed is out of the question. Shedinja are actually easy to care for, but most trainers find them too unsettling after some time.","These Pokémon are not recommended for beginners. Nincada are subterranean and can’t tolerate light. Ninjask are very difficult to train, refusing orders until their trainers prove worthy of their loyalty. They will challenge them to races and obstacle courses to test their agility; trainers will have to use their wit to outsmart their Ninjask, as beating them in speed is out of the question. Shedinja are actually easy to care for, but most trainers find them too unsettling after some time.","These Pokémon are not recommended for beginners. Nincada are subterranean and can’t tolerate light. Ninjask are very difficult to train, refusing orders until their trainers prove worthy of their loyalty. They will challenge them to races and obstacle courses to test their agility; trainers will have to use their wit to outsmart their Ninjask, as beating them in speed is out of the question. Shedinja are actually easy to care for, but most trainers find them too unsettling after some time.","Whismur are difficult Pokémon to raise. They become dangerously loud when upset, and are difficult to calm down once they begin crying. Covering their ear holes will stop their wailing while still allowing them to breathe through their mouths. Loudred are rambunctious, though not intentionally difficult. Exploud are surprisingly well-mannered, given their appearance. Though these Pokémon are naturally cave-dwelling, they don’t seem to have an adversity to sunlight.","Whismur are difficult Pokémon to raise. They become dangerously loud when upset, and are difficult to calm down once they begin crying. Covering their ear holes will stop their wailing while still allowing them to breathe through their mouths. Loudred are rambunctious, though not intentionally difficult. Exploud are surprisingly well-mannered, given their appearance. Though these Pokémon are naturally cave-dwelling, they don’t seem to have an adversity to sunlight.","Whismur are difficult Pokémon to raise. They become dangerously loud when upset, and are difficult to calm down once they begin crying. Covering their ear holes will stop their wailing while still allowing them to breathe through their mouths. Loudred are rambunctious, though not intentionally difficult. Exploud are surprisingly well-mannered, given their appearance. Though these Pokémon are naturally cave-dwelling, they don’t seem to have an adversity to sunlight.","Both of these Pokémon are relatively easy to care for; they spend most of their time training and can easily adapt to a wide variety of temperatures and climates thanks to their thick, insulating fat. The largest hurdle trainers must face is maintaining their strict, large diets. They are very particular about what goes into their bodies, and consume a lot of what they do eat. Nuts and fish are good choices, but rich stews and soups may be more economical for cash-strapped trainers.","Both of these Pokémon are relatively easy to care for; they spend most of their time training and can easily adapt to a wide variety of temperatures and climates thanks to their thick, insulating fat. The largest hurdle trainers must face is maintaining their strict, large diets. They are very particular about what goes into their bodies, and consume a lot of what they do eat. Nuts and fish are good choices, but rich stews and soups may be more economical for cash-strapped trainers.","Azurill are not very good swimmers (perhaps explaining their lack of a Water-typing), but enjoy playing in shallow water. They are prone to crying easily, particularly when frightened or hungry. Marill and Azumarill require diets high in oily fish in order to maintain their water-repellant fur and buoyant tails. They are also sensitive to high-pitched or loud sounds because of their delicate senses of hearing.","These Pokémon don’t require much attention; they barely move or react to anything. Nosepass are content as long as they are around enough iron to eat. Probopass seem a bit more responsive to care. They may play games of “tag” with small children using their Mini-Noses. Sometimes, unwanted metal objects may get stuck in their mustaches, and trainers may have to use quite a bit of force to pull them out. Electronics tend to malfunction around these creatures.","Skitty are very playful Pokémon that quickly become downcast if their trainers refuse to play with them. Their curiosity can get them into danger sometimes when they follow moving cars down the street, so trainers should keep a close eye on them. Delcatty aren’t so much “trained” as much as “accompanied;” obedience doesn’t seem to be a concept that these Pokémon understand. Expect to spend a significant amount of money on food and comfort when raising Delcatty.","Skitty are very playful Pokémon that quickly become downcast if their trainers refuse to play with them. Their curiosity can get them into danger sometimes when they follow moving cars down the street, so trainers should keep a close eye on them. Delcatty aren’t so much “trained” as much as “accompanied;” obedience doesn’t seem to be a concept that these Pokémon understand. Expect to spend a significant amount of money on food and comfort when raising Delcatty.","Although they are cave Pokémon, Sableye do not have an aversion to light. They are less expensive to feed than one may think; industrial-grade minerals are enough to satisfy these Pokémon. They are very playful creatures that will get bored quickly without sufficient stimulation, resorting to messing with furniture and personal belongings. Puzzles and building blocks are recommended toys, though trainers shouldn’t expect their Sableye to use them as they were intended.","Trained Mawile are actually rather docile creatures. Some even describe them as shy or timid around strangers. Although they usually hunt live prey, they will eat Berries, prepared meat, or most other foods that their trainers provide for them. Tin cans and scrap metal provide useful metals and minerals for these Pokémon to strengthen their horns with. They dislike being around rowdy Pokémon like Ludicolo or Loudred.","This family is hardy in nature, making it a good choice for trainers who are hesitant about raising more delicate Pokémon. It is crucial to keep Aron well-fed, as they will begin to eat away at iron around the house and nearby streets when hungry. Lairon can be confrontational, especially when they see another Lairon; trainer should know when to recall their Pokémon in tense situations. Aggron are more or less self-sufficient as long as they have enough iron to eat.","This family is hardy in nature, making it a good choice for trainers who are hesitant about raising more delicate Pokémon. It is crucial to keep Aron well-fed, as they will begin to eat away at iron around the house and nearby streets when hungry. Lairon can be confrontational, especially when they see another Lairon; trainer should know when to recall their Pokémon in tense situations. Aggron are more or less self-sufficient as long as they have enough iron to eat.","This family is hardy in nature, making it a good choice for trainers who are hesitant about raising more delicate Pokémon. It is crucial to keep Aron well-fed, as they will begin to eat away at iron around the house and nearby streets when hungry. Lairon can be confrontational, especially when they see another Lairon; trainer should know when to recall their Pokémon in tense situations. Aggron are more or less self-sufficient as long as they have enough iron to eat.","Both Meditite and Medicham maintain strict training regimens to test both their spiritual and physical limits. Meditite have a harder time during training, though, and can lose focus in loud and noisy environments. Because of this, urban trainers should find quiet dojos or other places their Pokémon can train in peace. Medicham, having practiced their concentration, can train even in disruptive situations with ease.","Both Meditite and Medicham maintain strict training regimens to test both their spiritual and physical limits. Meditite have a harder time during training, though, and can lose focus in loud and noisy environments. Because of this, urban trainers should find quiet dojos or other places their Pokémon can train in peace. Medicham, having practiced their concentration, can train even in disruptive situations with ease.","Like many other canines, Electrike adapts unusually well to life with humans. They are less docile than the likes of Lillipup, though, so trainers should not underestimate the effort it takes to raise them. These Pokémon love static electricity and will rub themselves against carpeted surfaces to charge up. They also love being brushed, but because they store electricity in their manes, trainers should not use metal brushes that can conduct a current through them.","Like many other canines, Electrike adapts unusually well to life with humans. They are less docile than the likes of Lillipup, though, so trainers should not underestimate the effort it takes to raise them. These Pokémon love static electricity and will rub themselves against carpeted surfaces to charge up. They also love being brushed, but because they store electricity in their manes, trainers should not use metal brushes that can conduct a current through them.","A Plusle will fare best when trained alongside a Minun, and vice versa. Under no circumstances should a trainer catch only one of these Pokémon if they come across a pair in the wild; once partnered, a duo will never separate; they will become severely depressed if parted. Minun dislike water for some unknown reason (though Plusle seem unfazed by it). They love to cheer on their teammates in battles.","A Plusle will fare best when trained alongside a Minun, and vice versa. Under no circumstances should a trainer catch only one of these Pokémon if they come across a pair in the wild; once partnered, a duo will never separate; they will become severely depressed if parted. Minun dislike water for some unknown reason (though Plusle seem unfazed by it). They love to cheer on their teammates in battles.","Volbeat fare surprisingly well when raised alone, considering that they naturally swarm in the wild. Without Illumise pheromones to entrance them, trained Volbeat act quite a bit differently than their wild counterparts, pursuing activities other than practicing their displays. They will revert to their usual behavior when they come across Illumise, however. Illumise themselves don’t seem to care whether or not they are followed by Volbeat, and act the same either way.","Volbeat fare surprisingly well when raised alone, considering that they naturally swarm in the wild. Without Illumise pheromones to entrance them, trained Volbeat act quite a bit differently than their wild counterparts, pursuing activities other than practicing their displays. They will revert to their usual behavior when they come across Illumise, however. Illumise themselves don’t seem to care whether or not they are followed by Volbeat, and act the same either way.","These petite Pokémon are not well-suited for beginning trainers. Although they are easy to feed, they are also thorny and toxic; Roselia in particular may accidentally stab their trainers with the thorns on their heads. Budew are sensitive to changes in weather, closing their buds in the cold and opening them in warmth. Multiple rapid changes in temperature, such as when entering and exiting temperature-controlled buildings, can throw off their bodily functions.","Neither Swalot nor Gulpin are suitable for anyone but the most experienced, daring trainers. Their poisonous natures and indiscriminate diets make them a danger to both life and property around them; they can quite literally eat a trainer out of house and home. A “balanced diet” isn’t a necessity for these Pokémon. Other than food, however, they don’t seem to require any other kind of care at all to thrive.","Neither Swalot nor Gulpin are suitable for anyone but the most experienced, daring trainers. Their poisonous natures and indiscriminate diets make them a danger to both life and property around them; they can quite literally eat a trainer out of house and home. A “balanced diet” isn’t a necessity for these Pokémon. Other than food, however, they don’t seem to require any other kind of care at all to thrive.","Although vicious in the wild, lone Carvanha are surprisingly meek in captivity. The scent of blood may still excite them, though. Trained Sharpedo also are a far cry from their wild counterparts, being considerably less aggressive. Trainers should note that while Carvanha are freshwater Pokémon, Sharpedo are marine ones. Carvanha swim into the sea just before evolution, so trainers should prepare for this once they notice their Carvanha becoming restless.","Although vicious in the wild, lone Carvanha are surprisingly meek in captivity. The scent of blood may still excite them, though. Trained Sharpedo also are a far cry from their wild counterparts, being considerably less aggressive. Trainers should note that while Carvanha are freshwater Pokémon, Sharpedo are marine ones. Carvanha swim into the sea just before evolution, so trainers should prepare for this once they notice their Carvanha becoming restless.","Wailmer are very playful Pokémon that love to bounce around on land. They cannot stay out of the water, indefinitely, though. Excited Wailmer may forget to return to the water while playing, so trainers should make sure to encourage their Pokémon to do so. It also goes without saying that both of these Pokémon need enormous habitats in order to thrive; Wailord trainers should ride boats far out from shore before releasing their Pokémon into the water.","Wailmer are very playful Pokémon that love to bounce around on land. They cannot stay out of the water, indefinitely, though. Excited Wailmer may forget to return to the water while playing, so trainers should make sure to encourage their Pokémon to do so. It also goes without saying that both of these Pokémon need enormous habitats in order to thrive; Wailord trainers should ride boats far out from shore before releasing their Pokémon into the water.","Both of these Pokémon can utilize magma substitute like Slugma and Magcargo, allowing them to dwell away from volcanoes. Water and rain can cool the magma in their humps, making them sluggish and lethargic. Numel hate being hungry and will not respond to commands until they are fed. Camerupt humps will occasionally erupt on their own; this is normal. The humps will begin to shudder and pulsate before an eruption, signaling for their trainers to prepare.","Both of these Pokémon can utilize magma substitute like Slugma and Magcargo, allowing them to dwell away from volcanoes. Water and rain can cool the magma in their humps, making them sluggish and lethargic. Numel hate being hungry and will not respond to commands until they are fed. Camerupt humps will occasionally erupt on their own; this is normal. The humps will begin to shudder and pulsate before an eruption, signaling for their trainers to prepare.","Torkoal are a very ancient species of Pokémon, related to the aquatic chelonians Blastoise and Carracosta. It is even more closely related to the similarly-terrestrial Torterra. These Pokémon are also some of the most long-lived of all known so far, with many individuals surpassing a century in age. Torkoal are notable for their diets of solely coal, which they store in their hollow shells. As such, their presence on a mountain is a surefire indicator of the precious substance. Mining operations have severely endangered the well-being of slow-moving Torkoal, who cannot easily relocate to new mountains once humans drain their current ones of coal.","Under no circumstances should a Spoink be put in a situation where it is unable to bounce; their hearts pump in tandem with their leaps, and stopping them can result in death. Spoink are also very protective of their pearls and will become stressed if they lose them. Trainers can calm them down slightly with other round objects to use temporarily, but they won’t settle down completely until they find new pearls. Grumpig are mostly self-sufficient and can take care of themselves.","Under no circumstances should a Spoink be put in a situation where it is unable to bounce; their hearts pump in tandem with their leaps, and stopping them can result in death. Spoink are also very protective of their pearls and will become stressed if they lose them. Trainers can calm them down slightly with other round objects to use temporarily, but they won’t settle down completely until they find new pearls. Grumpig are mostly self-sufficient and can take care of themselves.","Spinda are prone to bumping into objects as they stumble about. Although they may enjoy fermented Berries and fruits, trainers should be very cautious when feeding such food to their Pokémon; the alcohol content can inebriate these Pokémon so much that they will not even be able to stand. Spinda enjoy dancing once the sun sets, especially in large groups. While this dancing may seem to tire them out, it is a normal practice that wild Spinda engage in routinely.","Trapinch prefer to remain buried in the sand until evolution, so trainers should be prepared to accommodate for a large, dry sand pit when raising one. They may need some help righting themselves if they tip over headfirst. These Pokémon are adapted to arid climates and as such fair best in dry weather. Vibrava don’t fly very high or far, but Flygon do need quite a bit of room in order to fly freely.","Trapinch prefer to remain buried in the sand until evolution, so trainers should be prepared to accommodate for a large, dry sand pit when raising one. They may need some help righting themselves if they tip over headfirst. These Pokémon are adapted to arid climates and as such fair best in dry weather. Vibrava don’t fly very high or far, but Flygon do need quite a bit of room in order to fly freely.","Trapinch prefer to remain buried in the sand until evolution, so trainers should be prepared to accommodate for a large, dry sand pit when raising one. They may need some help righting themselves if they tip over headfirst. These Pokémon are adapted to arid climates and as such fair best in dry weather. Vibrava don’t fly very high or far, but Flygon do need quite a bit of room in order to fly freely.","These desert creatures require little sustenance, as they have adapted to life where both food and water is scarce. Although they are Grass-types that can root themselves into soil for nutrients, they are still ultimately hunters that require prey for survival. In fact, seeing these Pokémon use Ingrain is a sign that they are malnourished. Both Pokémon fare well in temperate climates, even though they are adapted to arid ones; they dislike the cold, however.","These desert creatures require little sustenance, as they have adapted to life where both food and water is scarce. Although they are Grass-types that can root themselves into soil for nutrients, they are still ultimately hunters that require prey for survival. In fact, seeing these Pokémon use Ingrain is a sign that they are malnourished. Both Pokémon fare well in temperate climates, even though they are adapted to arid ones; they dislike the cold, however.","Swablu are very comfortable around humans, but don’t fare well in urban environments because they hate uncleanliness. They must rinse their wings in clean water frequently and can’t stand seeing anything dirty; only tidy trainers should try to raise these Pokémon. Altaria are less concerned with cleanliness, but still greatly dislike messiness. They are stressed out by conflict amongst others.","Swablu are very comfortable around humans, but don’t fare well in urban environments because they hate uncleanliness. They must rinse their wings in clean water frequently and can’t stand seeing anything dirty; only tidy trainers should try to raise these Pokémon. Altaria are less concerned with cleanliness, but still greatly dislike messiness. They are stressed out by conflict amongst others.","Zangoose do not display many signs of outward affection. They are distant even towards those that they care about. Trainers should know, however, that they will fiercely defend their loved ones if they are ever threatened. Zangoose need to sharpen their claws routinely in order to keep them in peak condition. Hard rocks will suffice for this purpose, though sharpening stones meant for knives are often a better option.","Seviper are ectotherms that dislike cold weather, as low temperatures make them sluggish. They require rocks or sharpening stones to whet their tails on, as they must keep their scythe-like tails sharp in order to wield them properly. Seviper also shed their skins frequently and are briefly vulnerable after they do so. They recover much more quickly than most other shedding Pokémon, sometimes as quickly as in an hour or so, but prefer to hide in bushes or rocks during this time.","These Pokémon don’t seem to require much care at all from people. Their lives revolve around their respective celestial bodies, which trainers cannot control; Solrock “power down” at sunset, while Lunatone do the same during new moons as well as during the day. Sunlamps are not sufficient substitutes for the former. Obviously, keeping these Pokémon indoors during their respective hours is a poor idea that will greatly agitate them.","These Pokémon don’t seem to require much care at all from people. Their lives revolve around their respective celestial bodies, which trainers cannot control; Solrock “power down” at sunset, while Lunatone do the same during new moons as well as during the day. Sunlamps are not sufficient substitutes for the former. Obviously, keeping these Pokémon indoors during their respective hours is a poor idea that will greatly agitate them.","Both of these Pokémon are very easy to take care of as long as they are provided with muddy ponds to swim in. They are not very picky about water temperature, pollution, or salinity (as long as it isn’t excessively saline) and can make do in surprisingly small bodies of water. A thick layer of mud is critical for these Pokémon, as they love to bury themselves in the substance. The mucus covering their skin must be kept moist at all times.","Both of these Pokémon are very easy to take care of as long as they are provided with muddy ponds to swim in. They are not very picky about water temperature, pollution, or salinity (as long as it isn’t excessively saline) and can make do in surprisingly small bodies of water. A thick layer of mud is critical for these Pokémon, as they love to bury themselves in the substance. The mucus covering their skin must be kept moist at all times.","These Pokémon are extraordinarily scrappy; they can quite literally thrive if left in a pool of water with some algae growing in it. In fact, many people say that it is harder to get rid of these Pokémon once they move into a pond than it is to keep them there. It should be noted that Crawdaunt are incompatible with Whiscash, one of the only Pokémon that can hold their own against the equally territorial Crawdaunt.","These Pokémon are extraordinarily scrappy; they can quite literally thrive if left in a pool of water with some algae growing in it. In fact, many people say that it is harder to get rid of these Pokémon once they move into a pond than it is to keep them there. It should be noted that Crawdaunt are incompatible with Whiscash, one of the only Pokémon that can hold their own against the equally territorial Crawdaunt.","These Pokémon are very easy to care for, especially in arid environments, as they fare well even in intense heat. They have a strong aversion to water, however, and should not be left out in the rain or near water sources. Baltoy have great difficulty controlling their spinning on slippery surfaces like ice. Although they usually dislike being picked up, they seem to express gratitude towards those that remove them from slick terrain.","These Pokémon are very easy to care for, especially in arid environments, as they fare well even in intense heat. They have a strong aversion to water, however, and should not be left out in the rain or near water sources. Baltoy have great difficulty controlling their spinning on slippery surfaces like ice. Although they usually dislike being picked up, they seem to express gratitude towards those that remove them from slick terrain.","Lileep root themselves onto rocks and will not detach themselves until evolution. Thus, it is important to keep them in a stable habitat that will not change while they are living in them. Cradily are more mobile than their pre-evolutions, but still prefer to spend most of their time in one place. These Pokémon prefer warm waters and are sensitive to water pollution; trainers should keep a close eye on water quality while raising them","Lileep root themselves onto rocks and will not detach themselves until evolution. Thus, it is important to keep them in a stable habitat that will not change while they are living in them. Cradily are more mobile than their pre-evolutions, but still prefer to spend most of their time in one place. These Pokémon prefer warm waters and are sensitive to water pollution; trainers should keep a close eye on water quality while raising them","Anorith prefer to spend most of their time nestled in the crevices of rocks on the sea floor, so a rocky substrate is necessary when raising these Pokémon. Armaldo are primarily terrestrial, but dive into the water frequently. They require much larger bodies of water than their pre-evolutions. Both Anorith and Armaldo prefer to hunt live prey, ignoring food that already appears to be dead. Trainers should fortify their water with specialty mineral blends purchasable at some Poké Marts in order to keep the Pokémon, as modern seawater differs in composition from that of ancient oceans.","Anorith prefer to spend most of their time nestled in the crevices of rocks on the sea floor, so a rocky substrate is necessary when raising these Pokémon. Armaldo are primarily terrestrial, but dive into the water frequently. They require much larger bodies of water than their pre-evolutions. Both Anorith and Armaldo prefer to hunt live prey, ignoring food that already appears to be dead. Trainers should fortify their water with specialty mineral blends purchasable at some Poké Marts in order to keep the Pokémon, as modern seawater differs in composition from that of ancient oceans.","Feebas are extraordinarily easy to care for. Much like Magikarp, they can survive in practically any aquatic environment, freshwater or saltwater. Milotic are more difficult to raise, however. They require very large bodies of water to thrive, though they similarly do not have a preference for salinity. They prefer clean water, however, unlike their pre-evolutions, and do not fare well in polluted lakes.","Feebas are extraordinarily easy to care for. Much like Magikarp, they can survive in practically any aquatic environment, freshwater or saltwater. Milotic are more difficult to raise, however. They require very large bodies of water to thrive, though they similarly do not have a preference for salinity. They prefer clean water, however, unlike their pre-evolutions, and do not fare well in polluted lakes.","Castform can adapt to survive in a wide range of temperatures and climates, making them surprisingly hardier than they appear. They cannot tolerate excessively dirty water, however; acid rain in cities can make them ill. They also cannot change their form to suit non-hydrological weather--most notably, they are ill-suited to desert sandstorms, as they cannot recreate particles of dust or sand as they can steam, water,  or ice.","Kecleon are a temperate species that dislike cold weather. Other than that, however, they are rather easy to care for; they spend most of their time standing still waiting for prey to pass them by. These Pokémon dislike solid backgrounds that make their belly stripes stand out, instead preferring variegated surroundings. Trainers should familiarize themselves with their Kecleon’s coloration and mood, the connections between which varies among individuals.","Shuppet are a nocturnal species that detest light. Banette can tolerate sunlight more so than their pre-evolutions, but still dislike it. Trainers should train their Pokémon to feed on positive rather than negative emotions; however, some may find it beneficial to have these Pokémon around when feeling jealous or vengeful, as they may find that their grudges fade away as Shuppet and Banette feed on their envy.","Shuppet are a nocturnal species that detest light. Banette can tolerate sunlight more so than their pre-evolutions, but still dislike it. Trainers should train their Pokémon to feed on positive rather than negative emotions; however, some may find it beneficial to have these Pokémon around when feeling jealous or vengeful, as they may find that their grudges fade away as Shuppet and Banette feed on their envy.","Duskull and Dusclops can siphon life force from any living fauna; trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to arrange an ethical feeding routine for their Pokémon. These Pokémon also cannot bear light. Dusknoir will often wander away from their trainers for long periods of time, seeming as if they have separate goals to fulfill. This should not worry their trainers; these Pokémon will always return once their tasks are completed.","Duskull and Dusclops can siphon life force from any living fauna; trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to arrange an ethical feeding routine for their Pokémon. These Pokémon also cannot bear light. Dusknoir will often wander away from their trainers for long periods of time, seeming as if they have separate goals to fulfill. This should not worry their trainers; these Pokémon will always return once their tasks are completed.","These tropical Pokémon need plenty of sunlight and water to thrive. Without enough of either of these, their leaves will wilt, rendering them unable to fly, and their fruit will grow small and bitter. They also need lots of room to fly properly and will become anxious if kept in small quarters for too long. Provided these resources, however, Tropius are very friendly and easily-trained Pokémon.","Chingling and Chimecho both thrive in areas with consistent, gentle breezes. An electric fan will suffice for individuals that are kept indoors. These Pokémon cannot fly without wind, but can be blown away by strong gusts because of their light weight. Because of this, trainers should keep a close eye on their Pokémon when the weather changes. Chimecho like to attach themselves to sturdy branches and overhangs when the wind picks up.","These solitary Pokémon may seem distant and aloof the most trainers. they don’t outwardly express affection like most other Pokémon. They are fiercely loyal creatures that will defend their loved ones when in crisis, however. When Absol become restless and seem to be trying to get their trainers to leave, it is likely that a natural disaster is imminent. Trainers should notify authorities immediately if they see their Absol behaving oddly.","Both of these Pokémon are incredibly easy to take care of. Wobbuffet are especially so, as they prefer to be alone. They are perfectly happy if left unattended in a dark room with an ample supply of Berries. Wynaut are more social Pokémon that like being in large groups. They can get a bit rough when playing, however, and should be kept away from more fragile Pokémon (and children). They also enjoy the darkness, but do not detest light like Wobbuffet.","All members of this family thrive in subzero temperatures. They can survive for some time in warmer climates; Snorunt in particular can dwell even in direct sunlight as long as there is still unmelted snow (or ice, which may be more convenient for trainers) on the ground. Froslass and Glalie are more resilient to heat, but should be covered in ice periodically in order to keep their body temperatures low.","All members of this family thrive in subzero temperatures. They can survive for some time in warmer climates; Snorunt in particular can dwell even in direct sunlight as long as there is still unmelted snow (or ice, which may be more convenient for trainers) on the ground. Froslass and Glalie are more resilient to heat, but should be covered in ice periodically in order to keep their body temperatures low.","All members of this family are adapted to arctic climates. Their thick blubber traps heat easily, so these Pokémon should not be kept in warm weather, where they can easily overheat. Spheal and Sealeo are both playful and comfortable around humans, especially children. Sealeo in particular love to play with round objects. Walrein are less social, but those evolved from previous evolutions are much more accepting of humans.","All members of this family are adapted to arctic climates. Their thick blubber traps heat easily, so these Pokémon should not be kept in warm weather, where they can easily overheat. Spheal and Sealeo are both playful and comfortable around humans, especially children. Sealeo in particular love to play with round objects. Walrein are less social, but those evolved from previous evolutions are much more accepting of humans.","All members of this family are adapted to arctic climates. Their thick blubber traps heat easily, so these Pokémon should not be kept in warm weather, where they can easily overheat. Spheal and Sealeo are both playful and comfortable around humans, especially children. Sealeo in particular love to play with round objects. Walrein are less social, but those evolved from previous evolutions are much more accepting of humans.","Clamperl can inhabit a wide range of water temperatures, but have low tolerance for water pollution. Although Huntail and Gorebyss are adapted to crushing pressures, they can survive at sea level as well; trainers can slowly acclimate their Huntail by gradually raising them from great depths (or, more accessibly, with the aid of an aquatic Pokémon facility). Gorebyss are already adapted to rapid changes in water pressure as well as both warm and cold temperatures.","Clamperl can inhabit a wide range of water temperatures, but have low tolerance for water pollution. Although Huntail and Gorebyss are adapted to crushing pressures, they can survive at sea level as well; trainers can slowly acclimate their Huntail by gradually raising them from great depths (or, more accessibly, with the aid of an aquatic Pokémon facility). Gorebyss are already adapted to rapid changes in water pressure as well as both warm and cold temperatures.","Clamperl can inhabit a wide range of water temperatures, but have low tolerance for water pollution. Although Huntail and Gorebyss are adapted to crushing pressures, they can survive at sea level as well; trainers can slowly acclimate their Huntail by gradually raising them from great depths (or, more accessibly, with the aid of an aquatic Pokémon facility). Gorebyss are already adapted to rapid changes in water pressure as well as both warm and cold temperatures.","Relicanth are a hardy species that prefer cold, deep waters. They fare well at sea level as long as their habitats are kept cool and dark. These Pokémon prefer to stay near the bottoms of their enclosures. Trainers should not be alarmed if their Relicanth do not move for extended periods of time; this is normal behavior for these Pokémon. Relicanth dislike being touched, even by others of their own kind. ","Luvdisc are a schooling species of Pokémon, and as such prefer to be around others of their kind. If raising a sole individual, it is best to keep it in the company of other, non-predatory Water-type Pokémon. They prefer warm, clean water with plenty of crevices to hide in. These Pokémon love being around displays of romantic affection, even those between other species. Since these Pokémon are usually raised for their scales, it should be noted that they usually shed in the fall.","Bagon require more than anything else high ledges to jump from; they will search for such areas before even looking for food or water. Hardy Shelgon can survive in most habitats, but they should be kept away from deep water. Salamence, though famously territorial, are surpisingly easy to keep happy in captivity. As long as they have access to an open sky to soar through, they are content spending their hours aloft in the wind.","Bagon require more than anything else high ledges to jump from; they will search for such areas before even looking for food or water. Hardy Shelgon can survive in most habitats, but they should be kept away from deep water. Salamence, though famously territorial, are surpisingly easy to keep happy in captivity. As long as they have access to an open sky to soar through, they are content spending their hours aloft in the wind.","Bagon require more than anything else high ledges to jump from; they will search for such areas before even looking for food or water. Hardy Shelgon can survive in most habitats, but they should be kept away from deep water. Salamence, though famously territorial, are surpisingly easy to keep happy in captivity. As long as they have access to an open sky to soar through, they are content spending their hours aloft in the wind.","Beldum are not the easiest Pokémon to raise; they seem to act erratically, lashing out with little warning. They mellow out a bit upon evolution into Metang, who prefer to remain aloof even to their trainers. Metagross are self-sufficient, but will not listen to trainers who they consider excessively dim. These Pokémon should be kept away from strong magnets, which can disrupt their movement, health, and even thinking. Beldum do seem to be calmed by the presence of weak magnets, however.","Beldum are not the easiest Pokémon to raise; they seem to act erratically, lashing out with little warning. They mellow out a bit upon evolution into Metang, who prefer to remain aloof even to their trainers. Metagross are self-sufficient, but will not listen to trainers who they consider excessively dim. These Pokémon should be kept away from strong magnets, which can disrupt their movement, health, and even thinking. Beldum do seem to be calmed by the presence of weak magnets, however.","Beldum are not the easiest Pokémon to raise; they seem to act erratically, lashing out with little warning. They mellow out a bit upon evolution into Metang, who prefer to remain aloof even to their trainers. Metagross are self-sufficient, but will not listen to trainers who they consider excessively dim. These Pokémon should be kept away from strong magnets, which can disrupt their movement, health, and even thinking. Beldum do seem to be calmed by the presence of weak magnets, however.",NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,"Turtwig are mild-mannered Pokémon that are rather easy to care for. They don’t need to eat, as they can thrive on only sunlight and water. Grotle and Torterra are herbivorous, but similarly are easy to raise. Clean water is a necessity when training these Pokémon. If the flora on their bodies begin to wilt, it is a sign that they are ill or malnourished. To keep wild Pokémon from nesting on their Torterra, trainers should hang reflective strips or loud chimes from the trees on their backs.","Turtwig are mild-mannered Pokémon that are rather easy to care for. They don’t need to eat, as they can thrive on only sunlight and water. Grotle and Torterra are herbivorous, but similarly are easy to raise. Clean water is a necessity when training these Pokémon. If the flora on their bodies begin to wilt, it is a sign that they are ill or malnourished. To keep wild Pokémon from nesting on their Torterra, trainers should hang reflective strips or loud chimes from the trees on their backs.","Turtwig are mild-mannered Pokémon that are rather easy to care for. They don’t need to eat, as they can thrive on only sunlight and water. Grotle and Torterra are herbivorous, but similarly are easy to raise. Clean water is a necessity when training these Pokémon. If the flora on their bodies begin to wilt, it is a sign that they are ill or malnourished. To keep wild Pokémon from nesting on their Torterra, trainers should hang reflective strips or loud chimes from the trees on their backs.","Chimchar are energetic Pokémon that enjoy moving around, whether alone or in the company of others. They will leap around branches and rocks in the wild, or across tables and desks in a home. Monferno and Infernape are less rambunctious, but still love playing with others. Monferno like to spar with other Pokémon to train, while Infernape prefer to practice their martial arts in solitude, often against trees or mountain faces.","Chimchar are energetic Pokémon that enjoy moving around, whether alone or in the company of others. They will leap around branches and rocks in the wild, or across tables and desks in a home. Monferno and Infernape are less rambunctious, but still love playing with others. Monferno like to spar with other Pokémon to train, while Infernape prefer to practice their martial arts in solitude, often against trees or mountain faces.","Chimchar are energetic Pokémon that enjoy moving around, whether alone or in the company of others. They will leap around branches and rocks in the wild, or across tables and desks in a home. Monferno and Infernape are less rambunctious, but still love playing with others. Monferno like to spar with other Pokémon to train, while Infernape prefer to practice their martial arts in solitude, often against trees or mountain faces.","Piplup and its evolutions are notoriously prideful and difficult to care for. They refuse to accept care from others, so trainers must go to great lengths to make them think they are taking care of themselves. Naturalistic feeding tanks stocked with live fish, for instance, are a must for these Pokémon, who prefer to catch their own food. They do not fare well in warm climates, as they are adapted to icy conditions.",NA,NA,"Although they naturally form flocks in the wild, both Starly and Staravia fare rather well in solitude. They are easy to care for and seem unfazed by the bustle of large cities. Trainers should be aware that Staravia raised alone can become aggressive when around others of their kind. Staraptor preen their combs meticulously and need a source of clean, fresh water to periodically rinse their feathers.","Although they naturally form flocks in the wild, both Starly and Staravia fare rather well in solitude. They are easy to care for and seem unfazed by the bustle of large cities. Trainers should be aware that Staravia raised alone can become aggressive when around others of their kind. Staraptor preen their combs meticulously and need a source of clean, fresh water to periodically rinse their feathers.","Although they naturally form flocks in the wild, both Starly and Staravia fare rather well in solitude. They are easy to care for and seem unfazed by the bustle of large cities. Trainers should be aware that Staravia raised alone can become aggressive when around others of their kind. Staraptor preen their combs meticulously and need a source of clean, fresh water to periodically rinse their feathers.","Both of these Pokémon are relatively easy to care for. They are surprisingly hardy and can tolerate a wide range of climates as long as they are near fresh water. These Pokémon spend their whole days working; they will become very anxious if they are left with nothing to do. In areas where felling trees and building dams is implausible, Bidoof and Bibarel can be kept busy with building blocks or even simple yard work (they can trim bushes with their teeth, for instance).","Both of these Pokémon are relatively easy to care for. They are surprisingly hardy and can tolerate a wide range of climates as long as they are near fresh water. These Pokémon spend their whole days working; they will become very anxious if they are left with nothing to do. In areas where felling trees and building dams is implausible, Bidoof and Bibarel can be kept busy with building blocks or even simple yard work (they can trim bushes with their teeth, for instance).","These Pokémon fare well alongside humans. They are adapted to temperate climates and become sluggish when exposed to the cold. Kricketot are clumsy Pokémon that have some difficulty traveling across uneven terrain, so trainers should ensure that their habitats are relatively flat in order to avoid mishaps. Kricketune take great care of their mustaches; trainers should not feed them anything sticky that could potentially dirty them.","These Pokémon fare well alongside humans. They are adapted to temperate climates and become sluggish when exposed to the cold. Kricketot are clumsy Pokémon that have some difficulty traveling across uneven terrain, so trainers should ensure that their habitats are relatively flat in order to avoid mishaps. Kricketune take great care of their mustaches; trainers should not feed them anything sticky that could potentially dirty them.","Shinx are a good choice for starting trainers, with some Sinnoh trainers using them as an alternative to the traditional starters of the region. They dislike being alone, but shouldn’t be kept with Pokémon smaller than themselves; they are curious in nature and may hurt fragile species while playing with them. Luxio and Luxray are low-maintenance Pokémon that can largely take care of themselves; Luxray seem to even have parental instincts that help them care for other Pokémon.","Shinx are a good choice for starting trainers, with some Sinnoh trainers using them as an alternative to the traditional starters of the region. They dislike being alone, but shouldn’t be kept with Pokémon smaller than themselves; they are curious in nature and may hurt fragile species while playing with them. Luxio and Luxray are low-maintenance Pokémon that can largely take care of themselves; Luxray seem to even have parental instincts that help them care for other Pokémon.","Shinx are a good choice for starting trainers, with some Sinnoh trainers using them as an alternative to the traditional starters of the region. They dislike being alone, but shouldn’t be kept with Pokémon smaller than themselves; they are curious in nature and may hurt fragile species while playing with them. Luxio and Luxray are low-maintenance Pokémon that can largely take care of themselves; Luxray seem to even have parental instincts that help them care for other Pokémon.","These petite Pokémon are not well-suited for beginning trainers. Although they are easy to feed, they are also thorny and toxic; Roselia in particular may accidentally stab their trainers with the thorns on their heads. Budew are sensitive to changes in weather, closing their buds in the cold and opening them in warmth. Multiple rapid changes in temperature, such as when entering and exiting temperature-controlled buildings, can throw off their bodily functions.","These petite Pokémon are not well-suited for beginning trainers. Although they are easy to feed, they are also thorny and toxic; Roselia in particular may accidentally stab their trainers with the thorns on their heads. Budew are sensitive to changes in weather, closing their buds in the cold and opening them in warmth. Multiple rapid changes in temperature, such as when entering and exiting temperature-controlled buildings, can throw off their bodily functions.","These Pokémon are hardy, but difficult to care for. They will charge at a moment’s notice, and while they almost never hurt themselves in the process, they can severely damage property or other beings. They are not necessarily disobedient, but seem to have a hard time understanding even moderately complex commands. Trainers may find it effective to lure their Pokémon with waving flags so they charge in desired directions rather than at their own discretion.","These Pokémon are hardy, but difficult to care for. They will charge at a moment’s notice, and while they almost never hurt themselves in the process, they can severely damage property or other beings. They are not necessarily disobedient, but seem to have a hard time understanding even moderately complex commands. Trainers may find it effective to lure their Pokémon with waving flags so they charge in desired directions rather than at their own discretion.","Many trainers find that both of these Pokémon are very easy to care for; they are sturdy and tolerant of both temperate and tropical climates (though they very much dislike the cold), for instance. They are also docile, even around humans, and are easy to feed. Shieldon are shier than their evolutions and dislike vast, open spaces where they have nowhere to hide. They also enjoy polishing their face plates with leaves.","Many trainers find that both of these Pokémon are very easy to care for; they are sturdy and tolerant of both temperate and tropical climates (though they very much dislike the cold), for instance. They are also docile, even around humans, and are easy to feed. Shieldon are shier than their evolutions and dislike vast, open spaces where they have nowhere to hide. They also enjoy polishing their face plates with leaves.","Burmy and Wormadam are both skittish Pokémon that dislike being in the open. They prefer to nestle themselves deep within bunches of tree leaves to avoid being seen. When their cloaks fall off, they will frantically create new ones from surrounding materials; trainers should keep things like leaves, pebbles, or scraps near them so they have an easier time doing so. Mothim are nocturnal creatures that are attracted to bright light. Artificial lighting can disrupt their body cycles.","Burmy and Wormadam are both skittish Pokémon that dislike being in the open. They prefer to nestle themselves deep within bunches of tree leaves to avoid being seen. When their cloaks fall off, they will frantically create new ones from surrounding materials; trainers should keep things like leaves, pebbles, or scraps near them so they have an easier time doing so. Mothim are nocturnal creatures that are attracted to bright light. Artificial lighting can disrupt their body cycles.","Burmy and Wormadam are both skittish Pokémon that dislike being in the open. They prefer to nestle themselves deep within bunches of tree leaves to avoid being seen. When their cloaks fall off, they will frantically create new ones from surrounding materials; trainers should keep things like leaves, pebbles, or scraps near them so they have an easier time doing so. Mothim are nocturnal creatures that are attracted to bright light. Artificial lighting can disrupt their body cycles.","Male Combee find themselves distressingly without purpose when isolated, so they should be at least raised in small groups. Female Combee fare much better in solitude, as they can evolve into Vespiquen (who by nature are never around other Vespiquen). Unless one wishes to farm Honey, one should not let their Vespiquen start new hives; this can be achieved by primarily feeding them nectar rather than Honey (though Honey can still be an occasional treat).","Male Combee find themselves distressingly without purpose when isolated, so they should be at least raised in small groups. Female Combee fare much better in solitude, as they can evolve into Vespiquen (who by nature are never around other Vespiquen). Unless one wishes to farm Honey, one should not let their Vespiquen start new hives; this can be achieved by primarily feeding them nectar rather than Honey (though Honey can still be an occasional treat).","Pachirisu are very much at home in urban environments, making them easy Pokémon to raise. They love to climb tall things, so trainers should provide them with climbing structures to prevent them from scaling furniture or even telephone poles. Even when food is plentiful, Pachirisu instinctively feel the need to hoard nuts and Berries in caches. By providing them with easily-accessible “hiding spots,” trainers can easily monitor and manage these stashes.","Buizel are surprisingly easy to raise even for novice trainers. Though they prefer rapid rivers, they can also make themselves at home in smaller, slower bodies of water; they dislike algae-choked, stagnant ponds, however. These Pokémon are friendly and agreeable near humans, making them ideal lifeguards for young swimmers. Their floatation sacs can be pierced by sharp objects, however, so their habitats should be kept free of sharp rocks and crags.","Buizel are surprisingly easy to raise even for novice trainers. Though they prefer rapid rivers, they can also make themselves at home in smaller, slower bodies of water; they dislike algae-choked, stagnant ponds, however. These Pokémon are friendly and agreeable near humans, making them ideal lifeguards for young swimmers. Their floatation sacs can be pierced by sharp objects, however, so their habitats should be kept free of sharp rocks and crags.","Cherubi are not at all active Pokémon; if given the chance, they will do little more than bask in the sunlight for as long as possible. Cherrim in their Overcast Forms are similarly sedentary, but they become hyperactive in their Sunshine Forms. They will run around and play happily in the sunlight, a far cry from their gloomy other forms. It is important to keep these Pokémon on regulated day and night cycles, however; too much time in either form is detrimental to their health.","Cherubi are not at all active Pokémon; if given the chance, they will do little more than bask in the sunlight for as long as possible. Cherrim in their Overcast Forms are similarly sedentary, but they become hyperactive in their Sunshine Forms. They will run around and play happily in the sunlight, a far cry from their gloomy other forms. It is important to keep these Pokémon on regulated day and night cycles, however; too much time in either form is detrimental to their health.","Shellos and Gastrodon are intertidal creatures that cannot stray away from the water for long periods of time. Staying moist is critical to their survival; trainers should maintain small pools of seawater in their habitats so they can rehydrate themselves. These Pokémon like to take shelter amongst rocks, a habit that allows them to endure ocean waves. Under no circumstances should they be fed anything with salt, as the mineral will rapidly draw moisture from their bodies.","Shellos and Gastrodon are intertidal creatures that cannot stray away from the water for long periods of time. Staying moist is critical to their survival; trainers should maintain small pools of seawater in their habitats so they can rehydrate themselves. These Pokémon like to take shelter amongst rocks, a habit that allows them to endure ocean waves. Under no circumstances should they be fed anything with salt, as the mineral will rapidly draw moisture from their bodies.","Neither of these Pokémon do well on the ground, as their weak legs are not adapted to support their weight for long periods of time. Plenty of branches or overhanging rods allow them to travel about with ease. These Pokémon are social and naturally form groups with their own kind in the wild. However, they are very playful and quick to make friends with strangers in new environments. They enjoy solving puzzles, particularly when rewards are involved.","These Pokémon are extraordinarily light, so they can be blown away by even moderate breezes. They should be kept indoors if the weather is even a bit breezy; obviously, fans should not be kept near them, either. The membranes surrounding their bodies are also very delicate, and sharp objects can pierce them and cause these Pokémon to deflate. They can reinflate themselves once their wounds heal, but are unable to fly until they recover.","These Pokémon are extraordinarily light, so they can be blown away by even moderate breezes. They should be kept indoors if the weather is even a bit breezy; obviously, fans should not be kept near them, either. The membranes surrounding their bodies are also very delicate, and sharp objects can pierce them and cause these Pokémon to deflate. They can reinflate themselves once their wounds heal, but are unable to fly until they recover.","Although shy at first, these Pokémon can become very friendly given enough time and affection. Both evolutions dislike large crowds, however; Lopunny will hide behind their ears in noisy situations. Loud noises can also damage their sensitive ears. These Pokémon also like to keep their fur clean, washing and brushing it frequently. Lopunny are especially meticulous about their fluffy ears.","Although shy at first, these Pokémon can become very friendly given enough time and affection. Both evolutions dislike large crowds, however; Lopunny will hide behind their ears in noisy situations. Loud noises can also damage their sensitive ears. These Pokémon also like to keep their fur clean, washing and brushing it frequently. Lopunny are especially meticulous about their fluffy ears.","Neither of these Pokémon can stand light, becoming dull and immobile when exposed to it. They are nocturnal and are only active once the sun sets. Large cities are not ideal places to raise Misdreavus and Mismagius because of the abundance of street lamps and other light sources. Like their relatives Banette, trained individuals can be taught to feed on positive emotions like happiness instead of negative ones like fear.","In the wild, Murkrow are often flock Pokémon under the leadership of Honchkrow. They seem to enjoy being alone, however, especially when freed from the strict orders of an unforgiving Honchkrow. Both Murkrow and Honchkrow are active in the darkness. Murkrow enjoy hunting for and collecting shiny things, while Honchkrow dislike doing work themselves and will try to command other Pokémon to work for them.","These finicky creatures are enormously difficult to care for; they have specific preferences for temperature, surroundings, and even lighting, becoming irritable when any of these are out of order. Their preferences also change on a whim and without notice; Purugly will not stop eating as long as there is food is in front of them, so trainers should be careful to portion their meals (even if it angers them). Chocolates like Sweet Hearts are poisonous to these Pokémon.","These finicky creatures are enormously difficult to care for; they have specific preferences for temperature, surroundings, and even lighting, becoming irritable when any of these are out of order. Their preferences also change on a whim and without notice; Purugly will not stop eating as long as there is food is in front of them, so trainers should be careful to portion their meals (even if it angers them). Chocolates like Sweet Hearts are poisonous to these Pokémon.","Chingling and Chimecho both thrive in areas with consistent, gentle breezes. An electric fan will suffice for individuals that are kept indoors. These Pokémon cannot fly without wind, but can be blown away by strong gusts because of their light weight. Because of this, trainers should keep a close eye on their Pokémon when the weather changes. Chimecho like to attach themselves to sturdy branches and overhangs when the wind picks up.","Though many trainers recoil at the thought of raising Stunky because of their infamous odor, they are surprisingly easy to care for. They will only spray if they feel threatened as a last resort, as it takes them a while to recharge their glands; the Pokémon themselves don’t smell terribly unless they have recently sprayed, either. Trainers should be aware that they will have to clean their Pokemon’s scent glands periodically, however, as they can clog and cause them great discomfort.","Though many trainers recoil at the thought of raising Stunky because of their infamous odor, they are surprisingly easy to care for. They will only spray if they feel threatened as a last resort, as it takes them a while to recharge their glands; the Pokémon themselves don’t smell terribly unless they have recently sprayed, either. Trainers should be aware that they will have to clean their Pokemon’s scent glands periodically, however, as they can clog and cause them great discomfort.","As one may expect of a Pokémon that survived underground dormancy for 2,000 years, these creatures are very hardy and require practically no care at all. They do not eat, for instance, and seem perfectly content floating around doing nothing at all (though some trainers report their Pokémon being receptive to playing with others). It comes as a surprise to many that these metallic Pokémon don’t dislike water, though it makes more sense in light of their connection to rain.","As one may expect of a Pokémon that survived underground dormancy for 2,000 years, these creatures are very hardy and require practically no care at all. They do not eat, for instance, and seem perfectly content floating around doing nothing at all (though some trainers report their Pokémon being receptive to playing with others). It comes as a surprise to many that these metallic Pokémon don’t dislike water, though it makes more sense in light of their connection to rain.","Both Pokémon are very skittish and quick to flee in the face of danger. They are both also deathly afraid of water and cannot tolerate even minute amounts of the substance. When Bonsly cry, they are actually expelling excess liquid from their bodies and are not actually (usually) upset. Even high humidity can disturb these Pokémon. Naturally, they should be kept inside at all times during rainy weather. ","These Pokémon love performing, and will mime on street corners for fun even when they do not need food. Mime Jr. love candy and will eat it until they get sick; trainers should know that this is obviously not healthy for them and keep sweets in hard-to-reach locations. Ironically, despite often pretending to be trapped in small boxes, Mr. Mime are claustrophobic and greatly dislike actually being confined.","Though both Chansey and Blissey can be skittish and shy away from people, Happiny can in fact be quite brash. They should always be allowed to hold Oval Stones or similarly-shaped objects, as they will become upset if they cannot find any.  A stone offered by a Happiny should always be accepted, as refusal is taken as a sign of disrespect. Chansey and Blissey can easily take care of themselves (as well as other Pokémon), but it should be noted that immoral acts greatly upset them.","Many people wish to raise Chatot because of their unique talent for mimicking vocalizations; they are especially desired by young, amusable children. While they are not particularly hard to raise, they are not suited for inexperienced novices, either. Chatot must be fed carefully-balanced diets; too much fruit or insects can make them ill, for instance. These Pokémon also enjoy being talked to; one may find they can hold “conversations” by repeating certain phrases in response to others.","Only the most daring, experienced, and noble-hearted trainers should even attempt to raise a Spiritomb. These Pokémon actively ignore reason and sympathy in favor of arbitrary destruction. Simply being near them is enough to cause them to lash out. Spiritualists say that raising a Spiritomb is in essence guiding 108 evil souls to repentance and forgiveness; few have succeeded in achieving this daunting task.","These Pokémon can be difficult to raise, as they tend to be temperamental and a bit disobedient. They prefer warm, dry climates. Gabite in particular love shiny objects; coins and other trinkets are a good way to earn their affection. Gible are clumsy walkers that cannot travel far without stumbling; they like to hide in alcoves and wall indents. Conversely, Garchomp prefer wide open spaces where they can run and fly freely.","These Pokémon can be difficult to raise, as they tend to be temperamental and a bit disobedient. They prefer warm, dry climates. Gabite in particular love shiny objects; coins and other trinkets are a good way to earn their affection. Gible are clumsy walkers that cannot travel far without stumbling; they like to hide in alcoves and wall indents. Conversely, Garchomp prefer wide open spaces where they can run and fly freely.","These Pokémon can be difficult to raise, as they tend to be temperamental and a bit disobedient. They prefer warm, dry climates. Gabite in particular love shiny objects; coins and other trinkets are a good way to earn their affection. Gible are clumsy walkers that cannot travel far without stumbling; they like to hide in alcoves and wall indents. Conversely, Garchomp prefer wide open spaces where they can run and fly freely.","Munchlax eat constantly and for this reason require a near-constant supply of food. They can be a drain on the wallet to raise, so trainers on a budget should consider other Pokémon. Snorlax also eat enormous amounts of food, but do so in single sittings while sleeping for as long as a month straight. It takes a lot to wake these slumbering giants, though, so as long as they don’t fall asleep in the middle of a street, they should not cause any problems.","Both of these Pokémon fare well alongside humans. Since they can not only understand human speech, but also interpret inner thoughts and emotions as well, they can quickly form deep bonds with their trainers. Like most Fighting-types, they spend a lot of their time training in solitude; they dislike being disturbed during this time, but can be very affectionate Pokémon when not busy in practice. ","Both of these Pokémon fare well alongside humans. Since they can not only understand human speech, but also interpret inner thoughts and emotions as well, they can quickly form deep bonds with their trainers. Like most Fighting-types, they spend a lot of their time training in solitude; they dislike being disturbed during this time, but can be very affectionate Pokémon when not busy in practice. ","These Pokémon spend most of their time submerged in desert sand in the wild, so trainers should fill their enclosures with enough of the substance so that these Pokémon can comfortably bury themselves completely. Since wind and weather will gradually blow sand away, these enclosures should be refilled periodically. Both evolutions cannot tolerate much water, so humid climates are are poor fit for them.","These Pokémon spend most of their time submerged in desert sand in the wild, so trainers should fill their enclosures with enough of the substance so that these Pokémon can comfortably bury themselves completely. Since wind and weather will gradually blow sand away, these enclosures should be refilled periodically. Both evolutions cannot tolerate much water, so humid climates are are poor fit for them.","Both Skorupi and Drapion are hardy Pokémon that can tolerate both humid and arid environments. They are intolerant of the cold, however, so implements like heat lamps may be necessary in cooler environments. Skorupi like to bury themselves in some sort of substrate, usually sand or mud. Contrary to popular belief, these Pokémon do not have an aversion to Cornn Berries (though they don’t particular favor them, either).","Both Skorupi and Drapion are hardy Pokémon that can tolerate both humid and arid environments. They are intolerant of the cold, however, so implements like heat lamps may be necessary in cooler environments. Skorupi like to bury themselves in some sort of substrate, usually sand or mud. Contrary to popular belief, these Pokémon do not have an aversion to Cornn Berries (though they don’t particular favor them, either).","These Pokémon require very damp habitats in order to survive. They are actually laid-back, easygoing creatures that don’t require much more than food and shelter. Since their toxicity is connected to their diets, trainers should raise their Pokémon on nonpoisonous sustenance rather than their usual prey. It should still be noted that both Pokémon still produce their own natural poison, however, and only strengthen it with ingested toxins (mixed in their sacs).","These Pokémon require very damp habitats in order to survive. They are actually laid-back, easygoing creatures that don’t require much more than food and shelter. Since their toxicity is connected to their diets, trainers should raise their Pokémon on nonpoisonous sustenance rather than their usual prey. It should still be noted that both Pokémon still produce their own natural poison, however, and only strengthen it with ingested toxins (mixed in their sacs).","As a temperate species, these Pokémon generally fare well in most environments. They are used to boggy conditions, however, and as such cannot tolerate aridity. Their prefer areas with acidic soil and high humidity. They naturally spend most of their time up in the treetops, so trainers should provide them with structures to hang off of using their vines. While they can tolerate poor lighting, Carnivine still fare best with plenty of bright sunshine.","Though these Pokémon are naturally deep-sea dwellers, they are actually tolerant of a wide range of pressures and salinities (some Finneon can even survive entirely in fresh water). Finneon function on a standard day-night cycle with regular, consistent periods of sunlight each day. Constant artificial lighting or irregular periods of darkness can cause them stress. Lumineon prefer to rest on sandy substrate at the very bottoms of their enclosures.","Though these Pokémon are naturally deep-sea dwellers, they are actually tolerant of a wide range of pressures and salinities (some Finneon can even survive entirely in fresh water). Finneon function on a standard day-night cycle with regular, consistent periods of sunlight each day. Constant artificial lighting or irregular periods of darkness can cause them stress. Lumineon prefer to rest on sandy substrate at the very bottoms of their enclosures.","Mantine are not recommended for most beginning or even intermediate trainers; these large, aquatic creatures require vast amounts of open water in order to swim freely. Mantyke are considerably easier, but can be quite a handful because of how playful they are. Although they can be raised without Remoraid, trainers should never separate a Remoraid and a Mantyke or Mantine that have already bonded; doing so would induce great distress in both Pokémon.","Both of these Pokémon dwell in snow-covered areas; if kept somewhere warmer, they will quickly remedy the situation by summoning snowstorms to blanket their surroundings in snow. Abomasnow very much dislike crowds and noise; they can become angry in bustling environments, lashing out with powerful blizzards. Snover, on the other hand, actually often are excited by large groups of people and Pokémon.","Both of these Pokémon dwell in snow-covered areas; if kept somewhere warmer, they will quickly remedy the situation by summoning snowstorms to blanket their surroundings in snow. Abomasnow very much dislike crowds and noise; they can become angry in bustling environments, lashing out with powerful blizzards. Snover, on the other hand, actually often are excited by large groups of people and Pokémon.","Sneasel live and hunt in pairs (which notably can be either mixed- or same-gendered), and Weavile do so in packs. As such, they are social creatures, despite their ruthlessness in hunting. They will become agitated when isolated for long periods of time, so trainers should let them spend plenty of time with other Pokémon. Because of their sharp claws, however, it is advised to keep them alongside hardier species. Sneasel in particular will form close bonds with a single partner.","The Magnemite family doesn’t eat food, drink water, or even breathe air, so they are easy for most people to raise. Generators can easily be bought from most hardware stores, producing a steady supply of electricity for these Pokémon to feed on; even if trainers forget to feed them, they can produce their own energy by spinning their magnets. They may rust when left in the rain for too long. Additionally, strong magnets of either polarity can affect their locomotion.","Since these Pokémon rely on their tongues to learn about their surroundings, it is important that trainers insure that they keep up with good oral hygiene. Though their saliva is naturally antibacterial, infections can result from minor cuts and abrasions on their sensitive tongues; mouthwash is an easy way to combat these afflictions. Very tart, salty, and particularly spicy foods can also overwhelm their taste buds and render them unable to taste anything for a while afterwards.","These Pokémon are notoriously hardy, but are very weak to water. Their thick armor prevents them from reacting to its presence quickly, so trainers should keep a close eye on their Pokémon  in wet environments. Rhyhorn cannot turn while charging, so they need plenty of open space while running. Rhyhorn racing tracks have sharp, 90° turns for this reason. Rhyperior need access to exposed stone to provide themselves with ammo for their rock-based attacks.","As with most plant-like Pokémon, both Tangela and Tangrowth need ample water and sunlight to thrive. These Pokémon seem to require much less of either resource than other Grass-types, however. This likely is a result of their carnivorous diets as well as their tendency to stay still for extended periods of time; it is normal for these Pokémon, particularly Tangrowth, to sit patiently in hiding for hours or even days while waiting for prey to pass by.","As baby Pokémon, Elekid can be a handful at times. They often have short bursts of energy, during which they will spin their arms wildly to charge up. Doing so quickly tires them out, however, and they have to rest immediately afterwards. Electabuzz and Electivire are comparatively low-maintenance. As long as they are provided with a steady source of electricity (usually from a generator), they are largely able to take care of themselves.","Although these Pokémon are able to acclimate to moderate climates with few problems, they should not be brought out in cold weather, which can turn them sluggish and lethargic. They enjoy taking baths in hot lava, so trainers should let them explore near active volcanoes (from a far, safe distance of course) if possible. Magby will expel dull red flames or sooty smoke when they are sick or ill.","Togepi imprint on the first living thing they see, and for this reason can only be raised by trainers that have hatched them from eggs. They are very needy as baby Pokémon, and have to be fed and soothed often; their shells are also fragile and can crack from rough handling. All members of this line greatly dislike anger and hostility. Being trapped around these emotions greatly distresses them. Togekiss are clumsy on the ground and require plenty of open air to fly around freely.","Yanma and Yanmega are great fliers, but do need to rest on perches every once in a while to recuperate the large amounts of energy they spend beating their wings so quickly. Since these Yanmega are not at all fickle when it comes to food, they will be satisfied with fresh meat as opposed to live prey. They particularly enjoy being tossed their meals so that they can catch them in the air with their powerful jaws.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","Gligar jump from high places in order to glide, so trainers should provide them with plenty of perches. They tend to be more active during the night, but can remain active during the day; Gliscor, on the other hand, are strictly nocturnal and like to hide in dark places until the sun sets. They need lots of open space to fly and should be let outside during the night. Trainers should contact their local Pokémon League branch to discuss their Pokémon’s feeding routines.","Because of their thick coats, these Pokémon fare very poorly in warm environments. Individuals kept even in temperate climates should have their coats trimmed to prevent overheating. Mamoswine tusks are made of ice and will melt when exposed to moderate heat. They are difficult Pokémon to raise outside of arctic environments, but can be trained to chill the air around them to keep their tusks from melting, though doing so for a while will tire them out.","Being the first instance of a virtual Pokémon, Porygon are rather clunky and unwieldy. They do not do much and can be slow at responding to commands. Porygon2 are more streamlined, and for the most part are self-sustaining. Porygon-Z can be a danger to themselves when glitching out, so trainers should be prepared to recall them into their Poké Balls if they do so. All members of the line should be returned periodically to their Poké Balls so that they can recharge.","Ralts is perhaps one of the hardest Pokémon for the average person to raise; they are extremely timid, teleporting away from the slightest sign of anger. This usually exasperates their trainers, causing them to flee even more, and so on. Not everyone can raise these Pokémon, as they require the utmost patience and optimism to properly develop. Both Gallade and Gardevoir, however, are extremely loyal and powerful Pokémon any trainer would be lucky to have.","These Pokémon don’t require much attention; they barely move or react to anything. Nosepass are content as long as they are around enough iron to eat. Probopass seem a bit more responsive to care. They may play games of “tag” with small children using their Mini-Noses. Sometimes, unwanted metal objects may get stuck in their mustaches, and trainers may have to use quite a bit of force to pull them out. Electronics tend to malfunction around these creatures.","Duskull and Dusclops can siphon life force from any living fauna; trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to arrange an ethical feeding routine for their Pokémon. These Pokémon also cannot bear light. Dusknoir will often wander away from their trainers for long periods of time, seeming as if they have separate goals to fulfill. This should not worry their trainers; these Pokémon will always return once their tasks are completed.","All members of this family thrive in subzero temperatures. They can survive for some time in warmer climates; Snorunt in particular can dwell even in direct sunlight as long as there is still unmelted snow (or ice, which may be more convenient for trainers) on the ground. Froslass and Glalie are more resilient to heat, but should be covered in ice periodically in order to keep their body temperatures low.","Rotom can be quite a handful to raise, though they are rarely ever intentionally malicious. Their trainers will find that they can and will possess practically any electrical device; Rotom often jump around from appliance to appliance to surprise unwary people and Pokémon. They are playful creatures that will play pranks for attention of left alone for too long. Trainers should also be aware that their electricity bills will likely be higher as a result of how these Pokémon feed.",NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,"Phione require very clean, warm water; they are almost entirely composed of the substance, so even small changes in water quality can have drastic effects on their health. They are poor swimmers that require currents in order to navigate. Phione migrate annually to a hidden location somewhere in the sea south of Sinnoh; trainers should let their Phione complete this journey alone, as it is illegal to follow these Pokémon without a permit from the Pokémon League.",NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,"Snivy are infamous for being haughty and fickle, making them a challenge for beginning trainers. These Pokémon aren’t so much defiant as much as dismissive; they only refuse orders that they believe to be a waste of their time rather than disobey commands in general. It is difficult to trick these intelligent Pokémon into agreement; dedicated trainers will learn, though, that with enough effort and affection, they will be learn to trust their trainers’ judgements.","Snivy are infamous for being haughty and fickle, making them a challenge for beginning trainers. These Pokémon aren’t so much defiant as much as dismissive; they only refuse orders that they believe to be a waste of their time rather than disobey commands in general. It is difficult to trick these intelligent Pokémon into agreement; dedicated trainers will learn, though, that with enough effort and affection, they will be learn to trust their trainers’ judgements.","Snivy are infamous for being haughty and fickle, making them a challenge for beginning trainers. These Pokémon aren’t so much defiant as much as dismissive; they only refuse orders that they believe to be a waste of their time rather than disobey commands in general. It is difficult to trick these intelligent Pokémon into agreement; dedicated trainers will learn, though, that with enough effort and affection, they will be learn to trust their trainers’ judgements.","Tepig are somewhat shy at first, but quickly grow accustomed to foreign surroundings. Once comfortable, they are easily excitable. Pignite and Emboar are much more outgoing. These Pokémon eat almost constantly, so their trainers should keep their food supplies well-stocked. Pignite and Emboar also enjoy wrestling with other Pokémon to practice their abilities; they are skilled at controlling their strength so as to not harm smaller sparring partners. ","Tepig are somewhat shy at first, but quickly grow accustomed to foreign surroundings. Once comfortable, they are easily excitable. Pignite and Emboar are much more outgoing. These Pokémon eat almost constantly, so their trainers should keep their food supplies well-stocked. Pignite and Emboar also enjoy wrestling with other Pokémon to practice their abilities; they are skilled at controlling their strength so as to not harm smaller sparring partners. ","Tepig are somewhat shy at first, but quickly grow accustomed to foreign surroundings. Once comfortable, they are easily excitable. Pignite and Emboar are much more outgoing. These Pokémon eat almost constantly, so their trainers should keep their food supplies well-stocked. Pignite and Emboar also enjoy wrestling with other Pokémon to practice their abilities; they are skilled at controlling their strength so as to not harm smaller sparring partners. ","These Pokémon are naturally semiaquatic, but fare surprisingly well with only moderate access to water. They take great care of their shell-like implements, sharpening them on stones and cleaning them in water. Dewott in particular follow strict training schedules and can become upset when unable to adhere to them. Oshawott will try to look tough in the face of danger, but quickly lose this facade when actually threatened.","These Pokémon are naturally semiaquatic, but fare surprisingly well with only moderate access to water. They take great care of their shell-like implements, sharpening them on stones and cleaning them in water. Dewott in particular follow strict training schedules and can become upset when unable to adhere to them. Oshawott will try to look tough in the face of danger, but quickly lose this facade when actually threatened.","These Pokémon are naturally semiaquatic, but fare surprisingly well with only moderate access to water. They take great care of their shell-like implements, sharpening them on stones and cleaning them in water. Dewott in particular follow strict training schedules and can become upset when unable to adhere to them. Oshawott will try to look tough in the face of danger, but quickly lose this facade when actually threatened.","Patrat and Watchog are both communal creatures. They cannot stand being alone, becoming incredibly anxious when they feel they are not being watched over by a friend. They are also burrowers that are most comfortable sleeping underground. Trainers may find soft night-lights to be soothing for their Pokémon; the gentle light resembles that of a patrolling Watchog, helping these Pokémon stay at ease.","Patrat and Watchog are both communal creatures. They cannot stand being alone, becoming incredibly anxious when they feel they are not being watched over by a friend. They are also burrowers that are most comfortable sleeping underground. Trainers may find soft night-lights to be soothing for their Pokémon; the gentle light resembles that of a patrolling Watchog, helping these Pokémon stay at ease.","These Pokémon are considered “man’s best friends” for a good reason; they have adapted to life with humans over hundreds of years, making them very loyal companions. In fact, human interaction is necessary to keep them happy. Though naturally adapted to alpine climates, they can easily dwell in warmer areas as long as their fur is trimmed so they don’t overheat. Herdier fur is a bit trickier than that of either of its evolutions; it should be brushed daily and shampooed weekly.","These Pokémon are considered “man’s best friends” for a good reason; they have adapted to life with humans over hundreds of years, making them very loyal companions. In fact, human interaction is necessary to keep them happy. Though naturally adapted to alpine climates, they can easily dwell in warmer areas as long as their fur is trimmed so they don’t overheat. Herdier fur is a bit trickier than that of either of its evolutions; it should be brushed daily and shampooed weekly.","These Pokémon are considered “man’s best friends” for a good reason; they have adapted to life with humans over hundreds of years, making them very loyal companions. In fact, human interaction is necessary to keep them happy. Though naturally adapted to alpine climates, they can easily dwell in warmer areas as long as their fur is trimmed so they don’t overheat. Herdier fur is a bit trickier than that of either of its evolutions; it should be brushed daily and shampooed weekly.","Purrloin aren’t particularly “warm” creatures, but they are surprisingly docile if well-cared for. They are intelligent enough to know that they shouldn’t “bite the hand that feeds them,” so to speak. With that being said, they should not be kept around smaller Pokémon that they can easily take advantage of, as they may bully them to pass the time. Liepard are less actively mischievous; prefer to spend their free time simply sleeping.","Purrloin aren’t particularly “warm” creatures, but they are surprisingly docile if well-cared for. They are intelligent enough to know that they shouldn’t “bite the hand that feeds them,” so to speak. With that being said, they should not be kept around smaller Pokémon that they can easily take advantage of, as they may bully them to pass the time. Liepard are less actively mischievous; prefer to spend their free time simply sleeping.","Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour are all surprisingly comfortable around humans; Simisear and Simipour are also usually docile, but Simisage can be more temperamental. Even trained ones may act unpredictably, especially when excited. Pansage and Simisage prefer tall trees and vines to swing around on; Pansear and Simisear seem to have an affinity for fertile soil; Panpour and Simipour require fresh water to refill their tufts.","Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour are all surprisingly comfortable around humans; Simisear and Simipour are also usually docile, but Simisage can be more temperamental. Even trained ones may act unpredictably, especially when excited. Pansage and Simisage prefer tall trees and vines to swing around on; Pansear and Simisear seem to have an affinity for fertile soil; Panpour and Simipour require fresh water to refill their tufts.","Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour are all surprisingly comfortable around humans; Simisear and Simipour are also usually docile, but Simisage can be more temperamental. Even trained ones may act unpredictably, especially when excited. Pansage and Simisage prefer tall trees and vines to swing around on; Pansear and Simisear seem to have an affinity for fertile soil; Panpour and Simipour require fresh water to refill their tufts.","Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour are all surprisingly comfortable around humans; Simisear and Simipour are also usually docile, but Simisage can be more temperamental. Even trained ones may act unpredictably, especially when excited. Pansage and Simisage prefer tall trees and vines to swing around on; Pansear and Simisear seem to have an affinity for fertile soil; Panpour and Simipour require fresh water to refill their tufts.","Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour are all surprisingly comfortable around humans; Simisear and Simipour are also usually docile, but Simisage can be more temperamental. Even trained ones may act unpredictably, especially when excited. Pansage and Simisage prefer tall trees and vines to swing around on; Pansear and Simisear seem to have an affinity for fertile soil; Panpour and Simipour require fresh water to refill their tufts.","Pansage, Pansear, and Panpour are all surprisingly comfortable around humans; Simisear and Simipour are also usually docile, but Simisage can be more temperamental. Even trained ones may act unpredictably, especially when excited. Pansage and Simisage prefer tall trees and vines to swing around on; Pansear and Simisear seem to have an affinity for fertile soil; Panpour and Simipour require fresh water to refill their tufts.","These Pokémon are easy to care for. They spend the day resting in quiet areas while cloaked in Dream Mist. At night, they will simply wander about to feed on the dreams of others; naturally, these Pokémon should not be kept in isolation, where they would be unable to find slumbering people and Pokémon. Munna and Musharna that spew thick, heavy smoke have likely consumed a nightmare and should be taken to a Pokémon Center to be treated.","These Pokémon are easy to care for. They spend the day resting in quiet areas while cloaked in Dream Mist. At night, they will simply wander about to feed on the dreams of others; naturally, these Pokémon should not be kept in isolation, where they would be unable to find slumbering people and Pokémon. Munna and Musharna that spew thick, heavy smoke have likely consumed a nightmare and should be taken to a Pokémon Center to be treated.","Pidove are incredibly easy to care for, even for urban trainers; they readily feed on seeds and food scraps and are already accustomed to the presence of humans. Tranquill, on the other hand, need seclusion; trainers should let them venture off on their own to find quiet places and trust them to find their way back home. Unfezant are less solitary than their pre-evolutions, but do prefer flat, open plains so they can run freely.","Pidove are incredibly easy to care for, even for urban trainers; they readily feed on seeds and food scraps and are already accustomed to the presence of humans. Tranquill, on the other hand, need seclusion; trainers should let them venture off on their own to find quiet places and trust them to find their way back home. Unfezant are less solitary than their pre-evolutions, but do prefer flat, open plains so they can run freely.","Pidove are incredibly easy to care for, even for urban trainers; they readily feed on seeds and food scraps and are already accustomed to the presence of humans. Tranquill, on the other hand, need seclusion; trainers should let them venture off on their own to find quiet places and trust them to find their way back home. Unfezant are less solitary than their pre-evolutions, but do prefer flat, open plains so they can run freely.","Both of these Pokémon are herd species that will become anxious if left alone. They need wide open spaces so they can run freely. Blitzle are actually docile and timid creatures that rarely act out. They enjoy being outdoors during thunderstorms. Zebstrika, on the other hand, can be a handful to raise; it takes a skilled trainer to understand how these Pokémon react to stimuli and prepare accordingly.","Both of these Pokémon are herd species that will become anxious if left alone. They need wide open spaces so they can run freely. Blitzle are actually docile and timid creatures that rarely act out. They enjoy being outdoors during thunderstorms. Zebstrika, on the other hand, can be a handful to raise; it takes a skilled trainer to understand how these Pokémon react to stimuli and prepare accordingly.","Roggenrola require immense pressure in order to survive; while there are specialty chambers on the market that can replicate such pressure, trainers may find it easiest to simply let them burrow underground, where they are most comfortable. Once Roggenrola evolve, they become much easier to care for. Boldore must cool their cores down in water periodically, while Gigalith need to bask in sunlight to create energy, but they otherwise require practically no care at all.","Roggenrola require immense pressure in order to survive; while there are specialty chambers on the market that can replicate such pressure, trainers may find it easiest to simply let them burrow underground, where they are most comfortable. Once Roggenrola evolve, they become much easier to care for. Boldore must cool their cores down in water periodically, while Gigalith need to bask in sunlight to create energy, but they otherwise require practically no care at all.","Roggenrola require immense pressure in order to survive; while there are specialty chambers on the market that can replicate such pressure, trainers may find it easiest to simply let them burrow underground, where they are most comfortable. Once Roggenrola evolve, they become much easier to care for. Boldore must cool their cores down in water periodically, while Gigalith need to bask in sunlight to create energy, but they otherwise require practically no care at all.","Woobat naturally are found clustered together in close bundles; they are used to being surrounded by warm fur while resting, so trainers should bundle them in soft blankets as they rest to simulate this. They like to attach themselves to vertical surfaces with their noses. Both evolutions are friendly creatures that love to be around others in general. Despite being nocturnal cave Pokémon, however, these Pokémon seem to at least tolerate sunlight with little ill effects.","Woobat naturally are found clustered together in close bundles; they are used to being surrounded by warm fur while resting, so trainers should bundle them in soft blankets as they rest to simulate this. They like to attach themselves to vertical surfaces with their noses. Both evolutions are friendly creatures that love to be around others in general. Despite being nocturnal cave Pokémon, however, these Pokémon seem to at least tolerate sunlight with little ill effects.","These Pokémon are diggers that be raised in places where they can easily tunnel beneath the soil. Drilbur leave a mound of soil at the entrances of their tunnels so they can locate them after surfacing; trainers should not disturb these mounds, as these Pokémon will become distressed if they are unable to find these entrances. Both Pokémon sharpen their claws and blades periodically on stones and boulders.","These Pokémon are diggers that be raised in places where they can easily tunnel beneath the soil. Drilbur leave a mound of soil at the entrances of their tunnels so they can locate them after surfacing; trainers should not disturb these mounds, as these Pokémon will become distressed if they are unable to find these entrances. Both Pokémon sharpen their claws and blades periodically on stones and boulders.","Audino are skittish creatures that dislike rowdiness or confrontation. City trainers may find that it takes a while for their Audino to become accustomed to the loud noises of metropolitan areas. These Pokémon dislike wide open spaces where they cannot easily hide. They seem innately compassionate towards others, however; if they see an injured person or Pokémon, they will ignore their own fears in order to help the being in distress.","These Pokémon are very comfortable around humans. As natural builders, trainers should supply them with materials to work with; Timburr prefer to work raw resources like fallen trees into their own planks, while Gurdurr and Conkeldurr prefer prepared materials. These Pokémon love to experiment with new resources, even those that most would consider unconventional; they have been known to create interesting structures from thick cardboard or wax, for instance.","These Pokémon are very comfortable around humans. As natural builders, trainers should supply them with materials to work with; Timburr prefer to work raw resources like fallen trees into their own planks, while Gurdurr and Conkeldurr prefer prepared materials. These Pokémon love to experiment with new resources, even those that most would consider unconventional; they have been known to create interesting structures from thick cardboard or wax, for instance.","These Pokémon are very comfortable around humans. As natural builders, trainers should supply them with materials to work with; Timburr prefer to work raw resources like fallen trees into their own planks, while Gurdurr and Conkeldurr prefer prepared materials. These Pokémon love to experiment with new resources, even those that most would consider unconventional; they have been known to create interesting structures from thick cardboard or wax, for instance.","Tympole and Palpitoad are naturally social creatures that don’t do well in solitude. They prefer muddy environments and are tolerant of stagnant, oxygen-poor waters. These Pokémon should not be kept in glass enclosures; the vibrations they produce can cause such walls to shatter. Palpitoad and Seismitoad like to spend a significant amount of their time on land, while Tympole rarely leave the water at all.","Tympole and Palpitoad are naturally social creatures that don’t do well in solitude. They prefer muddy environments and are tolerant of stagnant, oxygen-poor waters. These Pokémon should not be kept in glass enclosures; the vibrations they produce can cause such walls to shatter. Palpitoad and Seismitoad like to spend a significant amount of their time on land, while Tympole rarely leave the water at all.","Tympole and Palpitoad are naturally social creatures that don’t do well in solitude. They prefer muddy environments and are tolerant of stagnant, oxygen-poor waters. These Pokémon should not be kept in glass enclosures; the vibrations they produce can cause such walls to shatter. Palpitoad and Seismitoad like to spend a significant amount of their time on land, while Tympole rarely leave the water at all.","These Pokémon take their training very seriously; Sawk are even stricter about their practice than  Throh, skipping meals and sleep while trying to perfect specific techniques. In the wild, they use trees and boulders to practice, but trained ones can use punching bags or practice dummies instead. These Pokémon enjoy sparring with similarly-skilled people and Pokémon in order to learn new techniques from others.","These Pokémon take their training very seriously; Sawk are even stricter about their practice than  Throh, skipping meals and sleep while trying to perfect specific techniques. In the wild, they use trees and boulders to practice, but trained ones can use punching bags or practice dummies instead. These Pokémon enjoy sparring with similarly-skilled people and Pokémon in order to learn new techniques from others.",NA,"Sewaddle are used to having their parents dote on them, and as such require more attention than most other Pokémon. Trainers may find it difficult to tailor leaves for their Pokémon, but they luckily aren’t very fussy about perfection. Swadloon prefer to be left completely alone in damp, dark areas. Leavanny are essentially self-sufficient; they may even help their trainers raise other Pokémon.","Sewaddle are used to having their parents dote on them, and as such require more attention than most other Pokémon. Trainers may find it difficult to tailor leaves for their Pokémon, but they luckily aren’t very fussy about perfection. Swadloon prefer to be left completely alone in damp, dark areas. Leavanny are essentially self-sufficient; they may even help their trainers raise other Pokémon.","For a species as infamously aggressive as this one, these Pokémon are surprisingly not too difficult to train. Caught Venipede rarely lash out at their trainers, but they should be kept away from other small Pokémon. Whirlipede prefer to stay perfectly still and don’t eat at all, so they are also easy to care for. Scolipede, like Venipede, are docile towards their trainers; they can also be trained to be comfortable around other people and Pokémon as well.","For a species as infamously aggressive as this one, these Pokémon are surprisingly not too difficult to train. Caught Venipede rarely lash out at their trainers, but they should be kept away from other small Pokémon. Whirlipede prefer to stay perfectly still and don’t eat at all, so they are also easy to care for. Scolipede, like Venipede, are docile towards their trainers; they can also be trained to be comfortable around other people and Pokémon as well.","For a species as infamously aggressive as this one, these Pokémon are surprisingly not too difficult to train. Caught Venipede rarely lash out at their trainers, but they should be kept away from other small Pokémon. Whirlipede prefer to stay perfectly still and don’t eat at all, so they are also easy to care for. Scolipede, like Venipede, are docile towards their trainers; they can also be trained to be comfortable around other people and Pokémon as well.","Cottonee normally travel in large clusters called “clouds;” to mimic this for their own Cottonee, trainers should envelop their Pokémon in soft cotton fabric so they don’t become frantically anxious. Seeds and other small particles can get trapped in their cotton and make it more difficult for them to fly; though they dislike being soaked, washing them is the easiest way to remove such debris. These Pokémon should not be left outside when strong winds are blowing.","Cottonee normally travel in large clusters called “clouds;” to mimic this for their own Cottonee, trainers should envelop their Pokémon in soft cotton fabric so they don’t become frantically anxious. Seeds and other small particles can get trapped in their cotton and make it more difficult for them to fly; though they dislike being soaked, washing them is the easiest way to remove such debris. These Pokémon should not be left outside when strong winds are blowing.","It can be difficult to properly raise these Pokémon; while they are good-natured and capable of surviving in substandard environments, they require very particular soil and water to properly thrive. Individual Lilligant each have their own specific preferences for things like soil pH and warmth; a trainer can tell when they have perfected these conditions when the flower on their Lilligant’s head blooms. Even so, the blooms almost never as vibrant as those of wild Lilligant.","It can be difficult to properly raise these Pokémon; while they are good-natured and capable of surviving in substandard environments, they require very particular soil and water to properly thrive. Individual Lilligant each have their own specific preferences for things like soil pH and warmth; a trainer can tell when they have perfected these conditions when the flower on their Lilligant’s head blooms. Even so, the blooms almost never as vibrant as those of wild Lilligant.","Basculin are a very hardy species that can tolerate a wide range of water conditions. Additionally, they are extremely easy to feed, making them ideal low-maintenance Pokémon. This comes with the caveat, however, that these Pokémon should be kept either in isolation or with other Basculin of the same form. They are very hostile toward other Pokémon, especially towards Basculin with the opposite stripe color.","Sandile and their evolutions are hardy Pokémon. Naturally, they are best suited to dry, arid climates. Sandile like to bury themselves in the sand; they rely on ambient heat to regulate their body temperatures, so trainers should keep the sand that these Pokémon dwell in heated. Trainers should note that only Krokorok are nocturnal; trainers may need to adjust their schedules when their Sandile evolve, and once again upon their second evolution.","Sandile and their evolutions are hardy Pokémon. Naturally, they are best suited to dry, arid climates. Sandile like to bury themselves in the sand; they rely on ambient heat to regulate their body temperatures, so trainers should keep the sand that these Pokémon dwell in heated. Trainers should note that only Krokorok are nocturnal; trainers may need to adjust their schedules when their Sandile evolve, and once again upon their second evolution.","Sandile and their evolutions are hardy Pokémon. Naturally, they are best suited to dry, arid climates. Sandile like to bury themselves in the sand; they rely on ambient heat to regulate their body temperatures, so trainers should keep the sand that these Pokémon dwell in heated. Trainers should note that only Krokorok are nocturnal; trainers may need to adjust their schedules when their Sandile evolve, and once again upon their second evolution.","Though these creatures dwell in deserts, they are comfortable even in cold environments. Darumaka seem entirely unfazed by snow, while Darmanitan may enter their Zen Modes when the temperature drops too low. Most of a Darumaka’s weight is near its bottom to keep it steady while sleeping; while this works well in deep sand, it makes it difficult for them to rest on inclined surfaces. These Pokémon are very energetic and should not be enclosed in small spaces.","Though these creatures dwell in deserts, they are comfortable even in cold environments. Darumaka seem entirely unfazed by snow, while Darmanitan may enter their Zen Modes when the temperature drops too low. Most of a Darumaka’s weight is near its bottom to keep it steady while sleeping; while this works well in deep sand, it makes it difficult for them to rest on inclined surfaces. These Pokémon are very energetic and should not be enclosed in small spaces.","Maractus are a very hardy species of Pokêmon that require little care. As Grass-types, they need plenty of sunlight to thrive; they also like to root themselves in a sandy substrate. These Pokémon have adapted to arid environments where water is scarce, so they will overfill themselves with the liquid when they come across it in expectation of a dry spell. Trainers should portion the water their Maractus receive in order to prevent them from drinking too much.","Dwebble are very picky about the rocks that they choose to make their shells out of; once they choose one, though, they will guard it very fiercely. Though they can use other materials like clay or brick, they almost always prefer natural stone. Crustle are similarly selective of the chunk of land they use to protect themselves. Trainers should give their Pokémon plenty of options when it comes to their shells. These Pokémon avoid water, as it can erode away at their shelters.","Dwebble are very picky about the rocks that they choose to make their shells out of; once they choose one, though, they will guard it very fiercely. Though they can use other materials like clay or brick, they almost always prefer natural stone. Crustle are similarly selective of the chunk of land they use to protect themselves. Trainers should give their Pokémon plenty of options when it comes to their shells. These Pokémon avoid water, as it can erode away at their shelters.","These Pokémon are adapted to dry, arid conditions. They will also do fairly well in temperate climates, but should be kept out of cool, polar environments; they are ectotherms that need the sun’s rays to warm up their bodies. Both Scraggy and Scrafty are naturally social creatures can get very lonely in solitude. They should be kept away from aggressive species, however, as they are confrontational Pokémon that often instigate fights if they feel threatened.","These Pokémon are adapted to dry, arid conditions. They will also do fairly well in temperate climates, but should be kept out of cool, polar environments; they are ectotherms that need the sun’s rays to warm up their bodies. Both Scraggy and Scrafty are naturally social creatures can get very lonely in solitude. They should be kept away from aggressive species, however, as they are confrontational Pokémon that often instigate fights if they feel threatened.","Sigilyph are a cryptic species that scientists don’t know much about. They appear to not require much care at all; once they grow accustomed to a location, they will simply begin to patrol its perimeter in a very set course. Trainers should not attempt to disturb a Sigilyph’s path once it is set; if its track is interrupted by an object, it will simply blast a hole through it and continue on its way.","Yamask seem to be lonely Pokémon that are unaccustomed to attention; they may be hesitant around strangers at first, but will eventually warm up to them. Trainers should clean and shine their masks periodically, but they should never take them out of their Yamask’s sight; doing so will cause them great anxiety. Cofagrigus also should be shined periodically. They spend most of their time remaining totally still. Feeding them can be very costly, however.","Yamask seem to be lonely Pokémon that are unaccustomed to attention; they may be hesitant around strangers at first, but will eventually warm up to them. Trainers should clean and shine their masks periodically, but they should never take them out of their Yamask’s sight; doing so will cause them great anxiety. Cofagrigus also should be shined periodically. They spend most of their time remaining totally still. Feeding them can be very costly, however.","Tirtouga are a marine species that spend most of the time in the sea. Though they will beach themselves onto land occasionally, they are very slow and clumsy when out of the water. Carracosta are truly semiaquatic, however, spending extended periods of time on the shore. Trainers should adjust their habitats accordingly to accommodate for this. These Pokémon may begin eating metal appliances and structures if they aren’t fed enough iron.","Tirtouga are a marine species that spend most of the time in the sea. Though they will beach themselves onto land occasionally, they are very slow and clumsy when out of the water. Carracosta are truly semiaquatic, however, spending extended periods of time on the shore. Trainers should adjust their habitats accordingly to accommodate for this. These Pokémon may begin eating metal appliances and structures if they aren’t fed enough iron.","Archen are poor fliers, but they like to hop between branches in trees; trainers should provide them with plenty of ledges to jump off of and around on. Archeops require plenty of space in order to take off into the air, so they do not fare well in cramped spaces. Though they naturally form groups with others of their kind, these Pokémon actually seem to fare well in solitude. They are easily spooked by sudden, loud noises or other surprises.","Archen are poor fliers, but they like to hop between branches in trees; trainers should provide them with plenty of ledges to jump off of and around on. Archeops require plenty of space in order to take off into the air, so they do not fare well in cramped spaces. Though they naturally form groups with others of their kind, these Pokémon actually seem to fare well in solitude. They are easily spooked by sudden, loud noises or other surprises.","Trainers that can withstand the rancid odor these Pokémon produce will soon learn that they are extremely easy to care for. These creatures have adapted to not only live, but thrive in areas where humans dwell. Ironically, trainers that raise Trubbish and Garbodor often have cleaner homes than those that don’t, as these Pokémon will gladly eat any trash that they find lying around.","Trainers that can withstand the rancid odor these Pokémon produce will soon learn that they are extremely easy to care for. These creatures have adapted to not only live, but thrive in areas where humans dwell. Ironically, trainers that raise Trubbish and Garbodor often have cleaner homes than those that don’t, as these Pokémon will gladly eat any trash that they find lying around.","These tricky Pokémon enjoy practicing their illusory skills. Zorua like to play tricks on people and Pokémon, delighting in inventing new ways to startle others. Zoroark prefer to practice their illusions in solitude; they will conjure entire landscapes complete with animate beings as they work to perfect their abilities. Trainers should dedicate a moderately-sized room or empty plot of land so their Zoroark can work with a blank slate.","These tricky Pokémon enjoy practicing their illusory skills. Zorua like to play tricks on people and Pokémon, delighting in inventing new ways to startle others. Zoroark prefer to practice their illusions in solitude; they will conjure entire landscapes complete with animate beings as they work to perfect their abilities. Trainers should dedicate a moderately-sized room or empty plot of land so their Zoroark can work with a blank slate.","These Pokemon absolutely cannot stand filth; because of this, they should not be raised alongside species like Grimer or Trubbish. Trainers should provide them with a consistent source of clean water, which they will use routinely to wash their fur after wiping down dirty surfaces. Minccino dislike being left alone; they get along well with docile Pokémon that don’t mind getting cleaned often.","These Pokemon absolutely cannot stand filth; because of this, they should not be raised alongside species like Grimer or Trubbish. Trainers should provide them with a consistent source of clean water, which they will use routinely to wash their fur after wiping down dirty surfaces. Minccino dislike being left alone; they get along well with docile Pokémon that don’t mind getting cleaned often.","These Pokemon are comfortable around humans. Gothita are odd creatures that like to stare out into nothingness; this is normal behavior for them, and their trainers should not disturb them while they are doing so. Gothorita and Gothitelle rely heavily on the stars for their powers, so they should be raised in areas with clear night skies. Gothitelle will sometimes cry when thinking about the distant future; there is not much their trainers can do other than console them quietly.","These Pokemon are comfortable around humans. Gothita are odd creatures that like to stare out into nothingness; this is normal behavior for them, and their trainers should not disturb them while they are doing so. Gothorita and Gothitelle rely heavily on the stars for their powers, so they should be raised in areas with clear night skies. Gothitelle will sometimes cry when thinking about the distant future; there is not much their trainers can do other than console them quietly.","These Pokemon are comfortable around humans. Gothita are odd creatures that like to stare out into nothingness; this is normal behavior for them, and their trainers should not disturb them while they are doing so. Gothorita and Gothitelle rely heavily on the stars for their powers, so they should be raised in areas with clear night skies. Gothitelle will sometimes cry when thinking about the distant future; there is not much their trainers can do other than console them quietly.","Although they are mostly squishy and gelatinous, these Pokémon are one of the most resilient species known to man. Their cell membranes and cytoplasm can protect them from crushing pressure, boiling and freezing temperatures, acidic and basic conditions, and so on. Trainers should have little trouble taking care of these creatures, as they have adapted to withstand practically anything.","Although they are mostly squishy and gelatinous, these Pokémon are one of the most resilient species known to man. Their cell membranes and cytoplasm can protect them from crushing pressure, boiling and freezing temperatures, acidic and basic conditions, and so on. Trainers should have little trouble taking care of these creatures, as they have adapted to withstand practically anything.","Although they are mostly squishy and gelatinous, these Pokémon are one of the most resilient species known to man. Their cell membranes and cytoplasm can protect them from crushing pressure, boiling and freezing temperatures, acidic and basic conditions, and so on. Trainers should have little trouble taking care of these creatures, as they have adapted to withstand practically anything.","Ducklett imprint on the first living thing they see when they hatch. This makes it difficult to raise wild-caught Ducklett, as they will become very distressed when separated from their mothers. They love to splash around in puddles and should be allowed to submerge themselves in water periodically to fill their spray sacs. Swanna dance every night at dusk; they will get angry if they are prevented from dancing or are interrupted while doing so.","Ducklett imprint on the first living thing they see when they hatch. This makes it difficult to raise wild-caught Ducklett, as they will become very distressed when separated from their mothers. They love to splash around in puddles and should be allowed to submerge themselves in water periodically to fill their spray sacs. Swanna dance every night at dusk; they will get angry if they are prevented from dancing or are interrupted while doing so.","All members of this family require freezing conditions in order to survive; industrial freezers are a good choice of habitat for them. They can be trained to immediately chill the surrounding area when released from their Poké Balls to temporarily create a suitable environment for themselves, and Poké Marts in warm areas will carry insulating spray to treat their ice. Trainers should never touch these Pokémon with their bare hands, as their body heat will cause their slush to melt at the point of contact. Vanilluxe will stop spewing mist when they are thirsty.","All members of this family require freezing conditions in order to survive; industrial freezers are a good choice of habitat for them. They can be trained to immediately chill the surrounding area when released from their Poké Balls to temporarily create a suitable environment for themselves, and Poké Marts in warm areas will carry insulating spray to treat their ice. Trainers should never touch these Pokémon with their bare hands, as their body heat will cause their slush to melt at the point of contact. Vanilluxe will stop spewing mist when they are thirsty.","All members of this family require freezing conditions in order to survive; industrial freezers are a good choice of habitat for them. They can be trained to immediately chill the surrounding area when released from their Poké Balls to temporarily create a suitable environment for themselves, and Poké Marts in warm areas will carry insulating spray to treat their ice. Trainers should never touch these Pokémon with their bare hands, as their body heat will cause their slush to melt at the point of contact. Vanilluxe will stop spewing mist when they are thirsty.","Deerling are easily spooked creatures. Both it and its evolution are sensitive to external conditions. They cannot tolerate heavy pollution, which will cause their plants to wilt. Similarly, they need a lot of sunlight in order to support their own vegetation. In the wild, herds of Sawsbuck will migrate to a new area each season as they clear different areas of food; trainers should mix up their diets with each new season to mimic this.","Deerling are easily spooked creatures. Both it and its evolution are sensitive to external conditions. They cannot tolerate heavy pollution, which will cause their plants to wilt. Similarly, they need a lot of sunlight in order to support their own vegetation. In the wild, herds of Sawsbuck will migrate to a new area each season as they clear different areas of food; trainers should mix up their diets with each new season to mimic this.","Emolga are most comfortable in the branches of trees. They try to stay off of the ground except when foraging, so trainers should provide them with plenty of ledges to glide between. These Pokémon cannot fly well when winds are too weak or strong; it may take some experimenting to figure out what conditions are optimal for them. Emolga have an instinct to hoard food before winter even when in captivity, so trainers should keep an eye out for hidden stashes.","Karrablast like to hide in tall grasses; however, they are very active around those that they are comfortable with and love to play. They should not be kept around Shelmet, however, as they constantly try to pry the unfortunate Pokémon form their shells. Escavalier are more reserved creatures. They spend a lot of their time practicing battle techniques; they require a lot of space in order to properly ramp up speed for some maneuvers.","Karrablast like to hide in tall grasses; however, they are very active around those that they are comfortable with and love to play. They should not be kept around Shelmet, however, as they constantly try to pry the unfortunate Pokémon form their shells. Escavalier are more reserved creatures. They spend a lot of their time practicing battle techniques; they require a lot of space in order to properly ramp up speed for some maneuvers.","These Pokémon are at home in damp soil or mulch. Both of these evolutions are very poor at moving, so they prefer to remain still as much as possible. Foongus are wary of strangers; they will scatter spores to defend themselves if someone or something gets too close. Amoonguss are more ambivalent, however; though they may act defensively at first, they will ignore repeated provocations from a single source.","These Pokémon are at home in damp soil or mulch. Both of these evolutions are very poor at moving, so they prefer to remain still as much as possible. Foongus are wary of strangers; they will scatter spores to defend themselves if someone or something gets too close. Amoonguss are more ambivalent, however; though they may act defensively at first, they will ignore repeated provocations from a single source.","Though they are usually found in the depths of the ocean, both Frillish and Jellicent can tolerate a wide range of water pressures (they float to the surface at night to feed). These Pokémon are unaccustomed to light; sudden flashes of it can damage their sensitive eyes. Frillish in particular transport themselves largely through water currents, so they may find it difficult to move about in still bodies of water.","Though they are usually found in the depths of the ocean, both Frillish and Jellicent can tolerate a wide range of water pressures (they float to the surface at night to feed). These Pokémon are unaccustomed to light; sudden flashes of it can damage their sensitive eyes. Frillish in particular transport themselves largely through water currents, so they may find it difficult to move about in still bodies of water.","Alomomola love to sunbathe; they lie flat on their sides at the water’s surface during the daytime. They require very large bodies of water relative to their sizes because of how they swim and rest. Alomomola find joy in caring for injured creatures; they will be saddened if their trainers elect to take their other Pokémon to Pokémon Centers instead of placing them under their care. Still, trainers should not let their dejection influence decisions regarding the health of their Pokémon.","Trainers may find it difficult to keep track of tiny Joltik. Luckily, once they find a suitable source of electricity, they rarely move away from it. Trainers can purchase special, rug-like electrical pads for their Joltik to use in feeding, though some may find it easier to simply wear wool clothing and let their Joltik attach to them as they go about their day. Galvantula like to mark their territories with electrified silk; it will take some time for them to unlearn this behavior.","Trainers may find it difficult to keep track of tiny Joltik. Luckily, once they find a suitable source of electricity, they rarely move away from it. Trainers can purchase special, rug-like electrical pads for their Joltik to use in feeding, though some may find it easier to simply wear wool clothing and let their Joltik attach to them as they go about their day. Galvantula like to mark their territories with electrified silk; it will take some time for them to unlearn this behavior.","These Pokémon are hardy creatures that require little care. Despite being Grass-types, they have adapted to life in dark caves and as such do not photosynthesize to survive. Ferroseed are particularly easy to care for; they will embed themselves into rocks and simply roll to new ones once they have finished feeding. These Pokémon are intolerant of hot weather, however; they prefer damp, cool, and shaded or dark areas.","These Pokémon are hardy creatures that require little care. Despite being Grass-types, they have adapted to life in dark caves and as such do not photosynthesize to survive. Ferroseed are particularly easy to care for; they will embed themselves into rocks and simply roll to new ones once they have finished feeding. These Pokémon are intolerant of hot weather, however; they prefer damp, cool, and shaded or dark areas.","These Pokémon should be kept near a source of magnetism; since they are so efficient, however, they can begin spinning when near something as weak as a bar magnet.  Trainers should never touch or interfere with these Pokémon as they are spinning; doing so can easily interrupt their motion and cause them to fall out of place. If their Klink or Klang do separate, however, reconnecting them and giving one of their units a light push will be sufficient to restart them. ","These Pokémon should be kept near a source of magnetism; since they are so efficient, however, they can begin spinning when near something as weak as a bar magnet.  Trainers should never touch or interfere with these Pokémon as they are spinning; doing so can easily interrupt their motion and cause them to fall out of place. If their Klink or Klang do separate, however, reconnecting them and giving one of their units a light push will be sufficient to restart them. ","These Pokémon should be kept near a source of magnetism; since they are so efficient, however, they can begin spinning when near something as weak as a bar magnet.  Trainers should never touch or interfere with these Pokémon as they are spinning; doing so can easily interrupt their motion and cause them to fall out of place. If their Klink or Klang do separate, however, reconnecting them and giving one of their units a light push will be sufficient to restart them. ","While these Pokémon are capable of surviving entirely in moist, but terrestrial areas, they fare best when able to spend some time in the water. Thus, trainers should provide them with semiaquatic habitats. Of course, this implies that they are ill-suited to arid climates. Tynamo are meek creatures that feel comfortable when they have plenty of places to hide. Eelektric are insatiable eaters that must be fed as many as eight times a day. ","While these Pokémon are capable of surviving entirely in moist, but terrestrial areas, they fare best when able to spend some time in the water. Thus, trainers should provide them with semiaquatic habitats. Of course, this implies that they are ill-suited to arid climates. Tynamo are meek creatures that feel comfortable when they have plenty of places to hide. Eelektric are insatiable eaters that must be fed as many as eight times a day. ","While these Pokémon are capable of surviving entirely in moist, but terrestrial areas, they fare best when able to spend some time in the water. Thus, trainers should provide them with semiaquatic habitats. Of course, this implies that they are ill-suited to arid climates. Tynamo are meek creatures that feel comfortable when they have plenty of places to hide. Eelektric are insatiable eaters that must be fed as many as eight times a day. ","Conspiracy theories aside, these Pokémon are not particularly difficult to raise. Elgyem are curious creatures that quickly grow accustomed to their trainers. They often display fascination with mundane household objects. Beheeyem are much more reserved than their pre-evolutions; they seem to act mostly on their own. Trainers should just let their Beheeyem be, as they are able to take care of themselves.","Conspiracy theories aside, these Pokémon are not particularly difficult to raise. Elgyem are curious creatures that quickly grow accustomed to their trainers. They often display fascination with mundane household objects. Beheeyem are much more reserved than their pre-evolutions; they seem to act mostly on their own. Trainers should just let their Beheeyem be, as they are able to take care of themselves.","Because of how these Pokémon feed, trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to arrange an ethical feeding routine. Keeping these Pokémon well-fed is an important responsibility, as their trainers will be held accountable if their Pokémon find unapproved sources of life force. As with many Fire-types, Litwick and its evolutions dislike water and should not be allowed outside during the rain.","Because of how these Pokémon feed, trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to arrange an ethical feeding routine. Keeping these Pokémon well-fed is an important responsibility, as their trainers will be held accountable if their Pokémon find unapproved sources of life force. As with many Fire-types, Litwick and its evolutions dislike water and should not be allowed outside during the rain.","Because of how these Pokémon feed, trainers should contact their local branch of the Pokémon League to arrange an ethical feeding routine. Keeping these Pokémon well-fed is an important responsibility, as their trainers will be held accountable if their Pokémon find unapproved sources of life force. As with many Fire-types, Litwick and its evolutions dislike water and should not be allowed outside during the rain.","Surprisingly for a three-stage Dragon-type, the Axew family is rather easy to train. Axew are docile creatures that are not shy towards strangers, while Haxorus are benevolent towards weaker creatures (which includes humans). Fraxure are the most likely of the family to be unruly, but even so, they can be kept content if provided with stones to sharpen their tusks with. Axew and Haxorus both also enjoy whetting their tusks to keep them sharp.","Surprisingly for a three-stage Dragon-type, the Axew family is rather easy to train. Axew are docile creatures that are not shy towards strangers, while Haxorus are benevolent towards weaker creatures (which includes humans). Fraxure are the most likely of the family to be unruly, but even so, they can be kept content if provided with stones to sharpen their tusks with. Axew and Haxorus both also enjoy whetting their tusks to keep them sharp.","Surprisingly for a three-stage Dragon-type, the Axew family is rather easy to train. Axew are docile creatures that are not shy towards strangers, while Haxorus are benevolent towards weaker creatures (which includes humans). Fraxure are the most likely of the family to be unruly, but even so, they can be kept content if provided with stones to sharpen their tusks with. Axew and Haxorus both also enjoy whetting their tusks to keep them sharp.","Both Cubchoo and Beartic are adapted to thrive at subzero temperatures. They should not be raised in even moderately warm climates, as their thick fur can easily cause them to overheat; furthermore, Cubchoo will quickly become ill as their snot warms (which also will cause their Ice-type attacks to weaken). Cubchoo also dislike being left alone for long periods of time; in the wild, they are only separated from their parents for at most a few hours while they are out hunting.","Both Cubchoo and Beartic are adapted to thrive at subzero temperatures. They should not be raised in even moderately warm climates, as their thick fur can easily cause them to overheat; furthermore, Cubchoo will quickly become ill as their snot warms (which also will cause their Ice-type attacks to weaken). Cubchoo also dislike being left alone for long periods of time; in the wild, they are only separated from their parents for at most a few hours while they are out hunting.","Cryogonal can naturally only remain solid when temperatures are below freezing. Thus, the vast majority of trainers will have to treat their Pokémon with commercial anti-melting “medicine,” which can be found in most Poké Marts. Cryogonal, even when treated, dislike heat and cannot stand temperatures above room temperature. Trainers should keep a cooler of ice or a fellow Ice-type Pokémon by to re-solidify their Cryogonal if they sublimate.","These Pokémon require damp habitats to survive, as they must keep their skins moist at all times. Shelmet like to bury themselves in mud; they are content spending their entire days like this. Accelgor can spend more time out of moist environments because of the mucoid membranes that wrap around their bodies. They like to zip around open to practice their fighting techniques and agility.","These Pokémon require damp habitats to survive, as they must keep their skins moist at all times. Shelmet like to bury themselves in mud; they are content spending their entire days like this. Accelgor can spend more time out of moist environments because of the mucoid membranes that wrap around their bodies. They like to zip around open to practice their fighting techniques and agility.","Stunfisk are easy to raise; once their trainers provide them with a still body of water to rest in, these Pokémon will quickly settle into the mud and hide themselves beneath it. Then, when it comes time to feed, their trainers can simply drop meals on top of their Stunfisk, who will instinctively electrocute and then consume their food. Since they are opportunistic feeders, they do not have to be fed live prey, making them even easier to care for.","Mienfoo should not be interrupted while they are training; they will get very angry if disturbed. Trainers should feed their Mienfoo before they train (because hunger can distract them) and provide them with a quiet place to focus. Mienshao are better at maintaining concentration, so they can practice even in noisy environments. Both evolutions like to clean and groom their fur routinely with water; they also enjoy being brushed by their trainers.","Mienfoo should not be interrupted while they are training; they will get very angry if disturbed. Trainers should feed their Mienfoo before they train (because hunger can distract them) and provide them with a quiet place to focus. Mienshao are better at maintaining concentration, so they can practice even in noisy environments. Both evolutions like to clean and groom their fur routinely with water; they also enjoy being brushed by their trainers.","Although these Pokémon naturally can be found underground, they adapt well to surface life. Unlike many subterranean species, Druddigon actually need to bathe in sunlight frequently to warm their bodies; trainers should let their Pokémon outside during fair weather so they can sunbathe. If the sky is cloudy, heat lamps will also suffice. As one can infer from their need for warmth, these Pokémon should not be raised in cooler climates.","Both of these Pokémon are accustomed to remaining still for extended periods of time; it is completely normal for them to “power down” and cease movement, the light emanating from their internal energy fading away. They are dutiful creatures that will obediently follow the commands of their trainers—even the ones that don’t seem like commands. These Pokémon take orders very literally, so trainers should be careful figurative speech around them.","Both of these Pokémon are accustomed to remaining still for extended periods of time; it is completely normal for them to “power down” and cease movement, the light emanating from their internal energy fading away. They are dutiful creatures that will obediently follow the commands of their trainers—even the ones that don’t seem like commands. These Pokémon take orders very literally, so trainers should be careful figurative speech around them.","Only skilled, experienced trainers should even attempt to raise these Pokémon. Pawniard are naturally pack creatures that will only obey an unquestionable leader; failing to prove superiority can have serious consequences when dealing with a Pokémon as dangerous as Pawniard. Bisharp dislike being ordered around and may attempt to battle and defeat unskilled trainers to assert dominance. Trainers should wear armor protection while trying to train these Pokémon.","Only skilled, experienced trainers should even attempt to raise these Pokémon. Pawniard are naturally pack creatures that will only obey an unquestionable leader; failing to prove superiority can have serious consequences when dealing with a Pokémon as dangerous as Pawniard. Bisharp dislike being ordered around and may attempt to battle and defeat unskilled trainers to assert dominance. Trainers should wear armor protection while trying to train these Pokémon.","Though Bouffalant may initially be very aggressive towards strangers, they quickly will grow accustomed to people and Pokémon that they see repeatedly. They take great pride in their head fur and appreciate trainers that groom them meticulously; though most Bouffalant will wash their fur in clean streams in the wild, trained ones often prefer or even insist upon more elaborate grooming: washing with shampoo, blow-drying, brushing, and so on.","Rufflet are helpless as soon as they hatch, but they quickly gain self-reliance as they grow. Young Rufflet will begin to leave their trainers’ sides for extended periods of time, though they will always return. It is vital that trainers allow their Rufflet to practice this so they properly develop their autonomy. Braviary are both fiercely independent and loyal to their trainers. They are entirely self-sufficient, provided that they have a reliable food source.","Rufflet are helpless as soon as they hatch, but they quickly gain self-reliance as they grow. Young Rufflet will begin to leave their trainers’ sides for extended periods of time, though they will always return. It is vital that trainers allow their Rufflet to practice this so they properly develop their autonomy. Braviary are both fiercely independent and loyal to their trainers. They are entirely self-sufficient, provided that they have a reliable food source.","Vullaby are clumsy Pokémon that will trip and fall often as they waddle around; they find it particularly difficult to travel across bumpy surfaces (which are unfortunately common in their natural habitats). When Vullaby discard their skulls, it means that they are preparing to evolve. Mandibuzz love to collect bones of all shapes and sizes. Trainers should save bones from their meals for their Mandibuzz to gather.","Vullaby are clumsy Pokémon that will trip and fall often as they waddle around; they find it particularly difficult to travel across bumpy surfaces (which are unfortunately common in their natural habitats). When Vullaby discard their skulls, it means that they are preparing to evolve. Mandibuzz love to collect bones of all shapes and sizes. Trainers should save bones from their meals for their Mandibuzz to gather.","Notably for Fire-types, Heatmor are adapted to be able to survive in humid climates; however, they still need to take shelter during rain so their internal flames stay burning. Feeding will be the biggest challenge when raising these Pokémon; since they naturally will only eat Durant in the wild (a practice that obviously cannot be replicated), trainers should consult Pokémon dietitians and specialty food stores for recommendations on how to feed their own Heatmor.","Although Durant are naturally eusocial creatures, they seem to do fairly well when raised alone. They are an obedient species that will heed orders dutifully. These Pokémon have an instinctual aversion to fire, as it is the main weapon of its natural predator Heatmor. Even the sound of a crackling flame will send Durant into a panicked frenzy. These Pokémon love to dig burrows underground, even if they have no queen to serve and protect.","These Pokémon should only be raised by experienced trainers. They are irritable and very aggressive, tackling and biting those that get too close even when they are trying to feed and care of them. It also takes a very skilled trainer to calm a rampaging Hydreigon. Deino and Zweilous should be kept in dark places, as they are not adapted to bright sunlight. Hydreigon, on the other hand, can remain outside during broad daylight with no ill effects.","These Pokémon should only be raised by experienced trainers. They are irritable and very aggressive, tackling and biting those that get too close even when they are trying to feed and care of them. It also takes a very skilled trainer to calm a rampaging Hydreigon. Deino and Zweilous should be kept in dark places, as they are not adapted to bright sunlight. Hydreigon, on the other hand, can remain outside during broad daylight with no ill effects.","These Pokémon should only be raised by experienced trainers. They are irritable and very aggressive, tackling and biting those that get too close even when they are trying to feed and care of them. It also takes a very skilled trainer to calm a rampaging Hydreigon. Deino and Zweilous should be kept in dark places, as they are not adapted to bright sunlight. Hydreigon, on the other hand, can remain outside during broad daylight with no ill effects.","These Pokémon like to keep to themselves. They may seem distant and reserved, even to their trainers. However, they will always come to the aid of their loved ones in times of need. Larvesta eat almost constantly, so trainers should provide them with plenty of food so they don’t begin eating house plants and causing damage elsewhere. Both of these Pokémon enjoy spending time outside, particularly during sunny weather.","These Pokémon like to keep to themselves. They may seem distant and reserved, even to their trainers. However, they will always come to the aid of their loved ones in times of need. Larvesta eat almost constantly, so trainers should provide them with plenty of food so they don’t begin eating house plants and causing damage elsewhere. Both of these Pokémon enjoy spending time outside, particularly during sunny weather.",NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,"These Pokémon are a hardy species that are a good choice for beginning trainers. Though Chespin can be a bit careless, their hard helmets protect them from most harm. Quilladin and Chesnaught can even help their trainers protect their other Pokémon from harm with their spiny carapaces. If the spines of these Pokémon begin to soften or droop, it is a sign that they are not getting enough cellulose in their diets.","These Pokémon are a hardy species that are a good choice for beginning trainers. Though Chespin can be a bit careless, their hard helmets protect them from most harm. Quilladin and Chesnaught can even help their trainers protect their other Pokémon from harm with their spiny carapaces. If the spines of these Pokémon begin to soften or droop, it is a sign that they are not getting enough cellulose in their diets.","These Pokémon are a hardy species that are a good choice for beginning trainers. Though Chespin can be a bit careless, their hard helmets protect them from most harm. Quilladin and Chesnaught can even help their trainers protect their other Pokémon from harm with their spiny carapaces. If the spines of these Pokémon begin to soften or droop, it is a sign that they are not getting enough cellulose in their diets.","Fennekin can be temperamental creatures, as they are prone to sudden mood swings. They become even more finicky when hungry. However, they become considerably more calm upon evolution into Braixen (and even moreso when they become Delphox). Braixen will become extremely agitated without their sticks, becoming unable to sleep if they lose them. Delphox are essentially self-sufficient and can take care of themselves.","Fennekin can be temperamental creatures, as they are prone to sudden mood swings. They become even more finicky when hungry. However, they become considerably more calm upon evolution into Braixen (and even moreso when they become Delphox). Braixen will become extremely agitated without their sticks, becoming unable to sleep if they lose them. Delphox are essentially self-sufficient and can take care of themselves.","Fennekin can be temperamental creatures, as they are prone to sudden mood swings. They become even more finicky when hungry. However, they become considerably more calm upon evolution into Braixen (and even moreso when they become Delphox). Braixen will become extremely agitated without their sticks, becoming unable to sleep if they lose them. Delphox are essentially self-sufficient and can take care of themselves.","Froakie are quiet, unassuming Pokémon that do not require much attention from their trainers. They are content spending the day watching people and Pokémon pass by. Frogadier similarly like to wait under the water’s surface in a cloak of foam, while Greninja prefer to hang from branches in dark places. It is critical that trainers keep their Pokémon moist, as these creatures breathe through their skin and can suffocate if it dries out.","Froakie are quiet, unassuming Pokémon that do not require much attention from their trainers. They are content spending the day watching people and Pokémon pass by. Frogadier similarly like to wait under the water’s surface in a cloak of foam, while Greninja prefer to hang from branches in dark places. It is critical that trainers keep their Pokémon moist, as these creatures breathe through their skin and can suffocate if it dries out.","Froakie are quiet, unassuming Pokémon that do not require much attention from their trainers. They are content spending the day watching people and Pokémon pass by. Frogadier similarly like to wait under the water’s surface in a cloak of foam, while Greninja prefer to hang from branches in dark places. It is critical that trainers keep their Pokémon moist, as these creatures breathe through their skin and can suffocate if it dries out.","Bunnelby like being underground; they quickly become anxious when kept indoors on concrete or other surfaces where it is difficult to burrow. They also like to keep occupied and dislike doing nothing for extended periods of time. Diggersby are more laidback when it comes to work, but they do like to work on building projects and do so industriously. They will get angry when disturbed while on breaks, however. ","Bunnelby like being underground; they quickly become anxious when kept indoors on concrete or other surfaces where it is difficult to burrow. They also like to keep occupied and dislike doing nothing for extended periods of time. Diggersby are more laidback when it comes to work, but they do like to work on building projects and do so industriously. They will get angry when disturbed while on breaks, however. ","Although they can be a bit aggressive at first, Fletchling can quickly adapt to life with humans; once they get used to a person, they will no longer react negatively to his or her presence. Fletchinder and Talonflame prefer wide open spaces to fly; unlike for many other avian Pokémon, dense forests are a poor choice for raising these creatures. Fletchinder should be allowed to reach maximum velocity and spew embers periodically in order to strengthen their flame sacs.","Although they can be a bit aggressive at first, Fletchling can quickly adapt to life with humans; once they get used to a person, they will no longer react negatively to his or her presence. Fletchinder and Talonflame prefer wide open spaces to fly; unlike for many other avian Pokémon, dense forests are a poor choice for raising these creatures. Fletchinder should be allowed to reach maximum velocity and spew embers periodically in order to strengthen their flame sacs.","Although they can be a bit aggressive at first, Fletchling can quickly adapt to life with humans; once they get used to a person, they will no longer react negatively to his or her presence. Fletchinder and Talonflame prefer wide open spaces to fly; unlike for many other avian Pokémon, dense forests are a poor choice for raising these creatures. Fletchinder should be allowed to reach maximum velocity and spew embers periodically in order to strengthen their flame sacs.","Members of the Scatterbug line are extraordinarily hardy, as their black powder enables them to tolerate a wide range of environmental conditions. Vivillon do require clean water, however, in order to thrive. These Pokémon should not be kept around open flames; although their powder is not particularly flammable, it can easily burst into flames once it is dispersed and separated in the air around a fire.","Members of the Scatterbug line are extraordinarily hardy, as their black powder enables them to tolerate a wide range of environmental conditions. Vivillon do require clean water, however, in order to thrive. These Pokémon should not be kept around open flames; although their powder is not particularly flammable, it can easily burst into flames once it is dispersed and separated in the air around a fire.","Members of the Scatterbug line are extraordinarily hardy, as their black powder enables them to tolerate a wide range of environmental conditions. Vivillon do require clean water, however, in order to thrive. These Pokémon should not be kept around open flames; although their powder is not particularly flammable, it can easily burst into flames once it is dispersed and separated in the air around a fire.","Litleo are easily excitable and a bit brash, but they are also friendly towards strangers that they do not view as threats. Their glowing manes will dull if they are ill or fatigued, making them a good indicator of their general health. Wild-caught Pyroar can be very difficult to raise, especially if the head male was caught. Those evolved from Litleo, however, will be very obedient to their trainers, who they view as the heads of their “prides.”","Litleo are easily excitable and a bit brash, but they are also friendly towards strangers that they do not view as threats. Their glowing manes will dull if they are ill or fatigued, making them a good indicator of their general health. Wild-caught Pyroar can be very difficult to raise, especially if the head male was caught. Those evolved from Litleo, however, will be very obedient to their trainers, who they view as the heads of their “prides.”","These Pokémon are most at home when surrounded by beautiful flowers. They like to be in bright sunlight, as sunshine is necessary to keep their own flowers healthy. Trainers should never separate Flabébé or Floette from their blooms, as doing so can endanger their lives. Floette and Florges enjoy caring for plants other than their own blooms. Florges in particular like to design elaborate, beautiful gardens full of vibrant flowers.","These Pokémon are most at home when surrounded by beautiful flowers. They like to be in bright sunlight, as sunshine is necessary to keep their own flowers healthy. Trainers should never separate Flabébé or Floette from their blooms, as doing so can endanger their lives. Floette and Florges enjoy caring for plants other than their own blooms. Florges in particular like to design elaborate, beautiful gardens full of vibrant flowers.","These Pokémon are most at home when surrounded by beautiful flowers. They like to be in bright sunlight, as sunshine is necessary to keep their own flowers healthy. Trainers should never separate Flabébé or Floette from their blooms, as doing so can endanger their lives. Floette and Florges enjoy caring for plants other than their own blooms. Florges in particular like to design elaborate, beautiful gardens full of vibrant flowers.","These Pokémon are very easy to care for, even for beginning trainers. They do not require feeding as long as they are provided with enough water and sunlight. Newborn Skiddo are very feeble on their feet, but they quickly strengthen and become strong enough to give rides to small children and Pokémon within a few weeks. These Pokémon dislike being kept in cramped spaces, as they like to run around freely in open areas.","These Pokémon are very easy to care for, even for beginning trainers. They do not require feeding as long as they are provided with enough water and sunlight. Newborn Skiddo are very feeble on their feet, but they quickly strengthen and become strong enough to give rides to small children and Pokémon within a few weeks. These Pokémon dislike being kept in cramped spaces, as they like to run around freely in open areas.","Although Pancham may act tough and spurn help, trainers should remember that they are brash and often get into situations they are not strong enough to handle alone. They enjoy being patted on the head, even if they don’t show it. Pancham also get distressed if unable to chew on bamboo leaves. They can be mischievous and are not well-suited for new trainers. Pangoro are mostly self-reliant, though trainers should keep an eye on them in case they become angry at others.","Although Pancham may act tough and spurn help, trainers should remember that they are brash and often get into situations they are not strong enough to handle alone. They enjoy being patted on the head, even if they don’t show it. Pancham also get distressed if unable to chew on bamboo leaves. They can be mischievous and are not well-suited for new trainers. Pangoro are mostly self-reliant, though trainers should keep an eye on them in case they become angry at others.","Furfrou are a bit more difficult to raise than other traditional domestic Pokémon, but they nevertheless are popular amongst many city-dwellers. Trainers will quickly find that they must groom their Pokémon’s fur periodically, even if they do not plan on styling it. Furfrou fur grows very quickly and can become unmanageable if left untrimmed. Trainers that do style their Furfrou should groom their Pokémon frequently to maintain their appearances.","Espurr are very difficult Pokémon to raise. They are eternally mortified of their own power, and being around others only adds to their anxiety. Their trainers must walk a fine line between comforting their Espurr and giving them the space that they need. As such, they should only be raised by experienced trainers. Meowstic are more composed than their pre-evolutions, but their trainers should still keep an eye on how they regulate their abilities.","Espurr are very difficult Pokémon to raise. They are eternally mortified of their own power, and being around others only adds to their anxiety. Their trainers must walk a fine line between comforting their Espurr and giving them the space that they need. As such, they should only be raised by experienced trainers. Meowstic are more composed than their pre-evolutions, but their trainers should still keep an eye on how they regulate their abilities.","It takes a skilled trainer to properly raise these Pokémon; they will only listen to those that they consider true leaders. Aegislash trainers must also be prepared to make sacrifices, as these creatures will exchange their obedience in exchange for some of their trainers’ life force. They do not drain enough to cause any significant harm, but it is a cost that one should still be aware of. Whether an Aegislash is influencing its trainer’s actions is solely a matter of trust.","It takes a skilled trainer to properly raise these Pokémon; they will only listen to those that they consider true leaders. Aegislash trainers must also be prepared to make sacrifices, as these creatures will exchange their obedience in exchange for some of their trainers’ life force. They do not drain enough to cause any significant harm, but it is a cost that one should still be aware of. Whether an Aegislash is influencing its trainer’s actions is solely a matter of trust.","It takes a skilled trainer to properly raise these Pokémon; they will only listen to those that they consider true leaders. Aegislash trainers must also be prepared to make sacrifices, as these creatures will exchange their obedience in exchange for some of their trainers’ life force. They do not drain enough to cause any significant harm, but it is a cost that one should still be aware of. Whether an Aegislash is influencing its trainer’s actions is solely a matter of trust.","These Pokémon are not particularly difficult to raise, but trainers with sensitive noses should not try to train them. Both Spritzee and Aromatisse can smell overpowering even when outside of battle, as they will attempt to devise and test new odors in their spare time. Trainers should be sure to provide their Pokémon with plenty of differently-scented foodstuffs so their Pokémon can experiment with a wide range of odorous substances.","These Pokémon are not particularly difficult to raise, but trainers with sensitive noses should not try to train them. Both Spritzee and Aromatisse can smell overpowering even when outside of battle, as they will attempt to devise and test new odors in their spare time. Trainers should be sure to provide their Pokémon with plenty of differently-scented foodstuffs so their Pokémon can experiment with a wide range of odorous substances.","Trainers raising these Pokémon should be sure to keep around an abundance of sugary candy. Swirlix can be quite a bit hyperactive, but their light weight means that they rarely cause much damage. Their sugary fur can easily turn furniture sticky, however; cleaning wipes usually can take care of such messes. Slurpuff seem to have an affinity for baking and enjoy helping out in the kitchen when dealing with sweets and pastries.","Trainers raising these Pokémon should be sure to keep around an abundance of sugary candy. Swirlix can be quite a bit hyperactive, but their light weight means that they rarely cause much damage. Their sugary fur can easily turn furniture sticky, however; cleaning wipes usually can take care of such messes. Slurpuff seem to have an affinity for baking and enjoy helping out in the kitchen when dealing with sweets and pastries.","It takes a trainer with great mental fortitude and willpower to raise these Pokémon. Inkay rarely use their powers for malicious purposes, but they may try to convince their trainers to buy them toys and treats. Poorly-trained Malamar are a danger to both their trainers and others, however; their trainers must be able to resist their influence and teach them to not use their abilities without instruction. These Pokémon must also be kept moist at all times.","It takes a trainer with great mental fortitude and willpower to raise these Pokémon. Inkay rarely use their powers for malicious purposes, but they may try to convince their trainers to buy them toys and treats. Poorly-trained Malamar are a danger to both their trainers and others, however; their trainers must be able to resist their influence and teach them to not use their abilities without instruction. These Pokémon must also be kept moist at all times.","Like many other coastal species, these Pokémon should be kept moist at all times. They are hardy creatures that can withstand rough conditions, as they have adapted to endure crashing waves. Binacle will sometimes bicker with one another and occasionally separate. This is rarely cause for alarm, as the units will usually make amends and reattach. Barbaracle limbs may also secede; lost units rarely return in this case however, so trainers may have to find new units to replace them.","Like many other coastal species, these Pokémon should be kept moist at all times. They are hardy creatures that can withstand rough conditions, as they have adapted to endure crashing waves. Binacle will sometimes bicker with one another and occasionally separate. This is rarely cause for alarm, as the units will usually make amends and reattach. Barbaracle limbs may also secede; lost units rarely return in this case however, so trainers may have to find new units to replace them.","These creatures are surprisingly hardy, despite how sickly they may look. They can tolerate a range of different water pressures as well as pollution levels. They cannot handle strong currents, however, as they are poor swimmers that cannot overcome such flows. These creatures like to hide themselves in thick clumps of seaweed and dislike being left out in open water for extended periods of time.","These creatures are surprisingly hardy, despite how sickly they may look. They can tolerate a range of different water pressures as well as pollution levels. They cannot handle strong currents, however, as they are poor swimmers that cannot overcome such flows. These creatures like to hide themselves in thick clumps of seaweed and dislike being left out in open water for extended periods of time.","These Pokémon should not be kept in glass tanks; they can easily shatter their enclosures with concentrated shots of water. Even if they don’t intentionally shoot the walls of their tanks, the cavitation bubbles they produce when firing alone can crack fragile glass. Other than this, however, they are a rather low-maintenance species that do not require much care other than feeding and cleaning.","These Pokémon should not be kept in glass tanks; they can easily shatter their enclosures with concentrated shots of water. Even if they don’t intentionally shoot the walls of their tanks, the cavitation bubbles they produce when firing alone can crack fragile glass. Other than this, however, they are a rather low-maintenance species that do not require much care other than feeding and cleaning.","These Pokémon love to sunbathe and should not be raised in areas that see little sunlight unless kept around bright sun lamps. If deprived of light for too long, they will become lethargic and slow-moving. The triangles at the tips of their frills will also flicker dimly when they are low on energy. Cold weather can also have a similar effect on these creatures, even if they are in direct sunlight.","These Pokémon love to sunbathe and should not be raised in areas that see little sunlight unless kept around bright sun lamps. If deprived of light for too long, they will become lethargic and slow-moving. The triangles at the tips of their frills will also flicker dimly when they are low on energy. Cold weather can also have a similar effect on these creatures, even if they are in direct sunlight.","Tyrunt are ridiculously difficult to care for; they are a finicky species that will become fitful if they dislike their food, become uncomfortable, or even feel displeased in general. They should not be raised with smaller Pokémon due to their reckless \"playing.\" Exasperated trainers that acquiesce to their demands usually report that their Pokémon are at best “ungrateful” when appeased. Tyrantrum dislike being bossed around and can be a bit disobedient when upset, but they are nowhere near as difficult as their pre-evolutions.","Tyrunt are ridiculously difficult to care for; they are a finicky species that will become fitful if they dislike their food, become uncomfortable, or even feel displeased in general. They should not be raised with smaller Pokémon due to their reckless \"playing.\" Exasperated trainers that acquiesce to their demands usually report that their Pokémon are at best “ungrateful” when appeased. Tyrantrum dislike being bossed around and can be a bit disobedient when upset, but they are nowhere near as difficult as their pre-evolutions.","These Pokémon are most comfortable at freezing or near-freezing temperatures. Unlike most other Ice-types, however, they are able to create such environments on their own without much expended energy, as their crystals naturally emanate subzero air to chill surrounding moisture. These Pokémon are also active from the evening to sunrise, when temperatures are the coldest; in temperate climates, they will seek shelter during the day from the warm sun.","These Pokémon are most comfortable at freezing or near-freezing temperatures. Unlike most other Ice-types, however, they are able to create such environments on their own without much expended energy, as their crystals naturally emanate subzero air to chill surrounding moisture. These Pokémon are also active from the evening to sunrise, when temperatures are the coldest; in temperate climates, they will seek shelter during the day from the warm sun.","The Eeveelutions are adapted to life alongside humans. Each has their own preferential habitat and climate, which should be made relatively obvious by their typings. It should be noted that each evolution tends to become stressed when removed from their preferred environment, so trainers should take into account where they live before choosing which Pokémon to evolve their Eevee into.","Hawlucha need high places to leap from in order to fly; they also require drafts of wind, though even slight breezes are enough for them to soar. These Pokémon spend much of their time devising new fighting techniques and would benefit from practice dummies to test out their innovations. They also take very meticulous care of their feathers, which they preen frequently to keep clean and vibrant. ","Although they are sometimes seen as pests because of the nuisances they can be to electrical and radio devices, they are also common pets because of their ease of care. Dedenne can feed themselves through power outlets and can be trained to restrict their radio waves so they do not interfere with household appliances. Their delicate antennae are crucial for how these Pokémon attack and communicate, so trainers should keep a close eye on them in case they get damaged.","Caring for these Pokémon is extraordinarily simple; to elaborate, they require virtually no care at all. Carbink are extraordinarily hardy and can tolerate a huge range of climates and temperatures. Rain can slowly wear down their bodies, but even this process can take centuries; Carbink also know to seek shelter when the weather becomes wet, so this is rarely a problem. When all else fails, they can enter states of dormancy to wait out potential dangers.","Goomy are weak Pokémon that like to hide themselves from danger, squeezing their soft bodies into crevices and tree hollows. Sliggoo similarly prefer dark conditions away from bright sunlight. Goodra are much more comfortable in the open than their pre-evolutions; however, all three evolutions of this family must stay moist at all times to keep their mucus hydrated. Goodra can remain away from water for longer, but still need to rehydrate periodically.","Goomy are weak Pokémon that like to hide themselves from danger, squeezing their soft bodies into crevices and tree hollows. Sliggoo similarly prefer dark conditions away from bright sunlight. Goodra are much more comfortable in the open than their pre-evolutions; however, all three evolutions of this family must stay moist at all times to keep their mucus hydrated. Goodra can remain away from water for longer, but still need to rehydrate periodically.","Goomy are weak Pokémon that like to hide themselves from danger, squeezing their soft bodies into crevices and tree hollows. Sliggoo similarly prefer dark conditions away from bright sunlight. Goodra are much more comfortable in the open than their pre-evolutions; however, all three evolutions of this family must stay moist at all times to keep their mucus hydrated. Goodra can remain away from water for longer, but still need to rehydrate periodically.","Klefki are usually calm and easy to keep happy; if they have many keys, they will be content. However, if a Klefki sees a key and its trainer denies it access to it, it will become very upset. Trainers should note that Klefki will only release keys to trusted individuals; angering their Pokémon can result in being locked out of one’s home or other doorways. Klefki hate rain, not because it can rust them but because it can rust some of the metal keys they hold.","These Pokémon prefer the quiet and solitude of dense woods. Phantump are comforted by the presence of trees; they will get scared and even begin to cry when taken to loud, bustling metropolises. Both evolutions are adapted to shady conditions and dislike sunlight. Trevenant communicate with one another and control trees through their roots; they may try to dig through tile or concrete when in buildings to reach soil.","These Pokémon prefer the quiet and solitude of dense woods. Phantump are comforted by the presence of trees; they will get scared and even begin to cry when taken to loud, bustling metropolises. Both evolutions are adapted to shady conditions and dislike sunlight. Trevenant communicate with one another and control trees through their roots; they may try to dig through tile or concrete when in buildings to reach soil.","These Pokémon dislike bright light. They become especially active during the new moon. Pumpkaboo are restless once the sun sets and very much dislike remaining still. Their trainers should let them wander where they must and trust them to return to rest once light returns. Since most people find Gourgeist singing very unsettling, trainers should train their Pokémon to refrain from it; they seem unable to control themselves during new moons, however. ","These Pokémon dislike bright light. They become especially active during the new moon. Pumpkaboo are restless once the sun sets and very much dislike remaining still. Their trainers should let them wander where they must and trust them to return to rest once light returns. Since most people find Gourgeist singing very unsettling, trainers should train their Pokémon to refrain from it; they seem unable to control themselves during new moons, however. ","Bergmite cannot tolerate temperatures above freezing, as heat will melt the ice covering their bodies. Avalugg are a bit more resilient towards heat, but they still prefer subzero climates. Bergmite are usually found clustered together on top of their parents in the wild; they hate being out alone in the open. Trainers can replicate this state (and keep them cold) by surrounding them in chilly beds of solid ice.","Bergmite cannot tolerate temperatures above freezing, as heat will melt the ice covering their bodies. Avalugg are a bit more resilient towards heat, but they still prefer subzero climates. Bergmite are usually found clustered together on top of their parents in the wild; they hate being out alone in the open. Trainers can replicate this state (and keep them cold) by surrounding them in chilly beds of solid ice.","Cave-dwelling, nocturnal Noibat and Noivern have aversions to bright light, which can disrupt their behavioral and sleep cycles. Sounds of high pitch or volume can also confuse them when they are trying to echolocate. These Pokémon require lots of room to fly—Noibat because they are clumsy in the air and often bump into things around them and Noivern simply because of their sheer size.","Cave-dwelling, nocturnal Noibat and Noivern have aversions to bright light, which can disrupt their behavioral and sleep cycles. Sounds of high pitch or volume can also confuse them when they are trying to echolocate. These Pokémon require lots of room to fly—Noibat because they are clumsy in the air and often bump into things around them and Noivern simply because of their sheer size.",NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,"These Pokémon are infamous for being among the most difficult starter Pokémon to raise across all regions. Rowlet are actually mild-mannered and quiet, arguably even simpler to care for than Litten or Popplio. This completely changes when they evolve, however. Dartrix are notoriously fickle and vain, completely losing their focus when taken by surprise. This trait continues to persist in Decidueye, though to a lesser degree. It takes a skilled trainer to placate these outbursts. ","These Pokémon are infamous for being among the most difficult starter Pokémon to raise across all regions. Rowlet are actually mild-mannered and quiet, arguably even simpler to care for than Litten or Popplio. This completely changes when they evolve, however. Dartrix are notoriously fickle and vain, completely losing their focus when taken by surprise. This trait continues to persist in Decidueye, though to a lesser degree. It takes a skilled trainer to placate these outbursts. ","These Pokémon are infamous for being among the most difficult starter Pokémon to raise across all regions. Rowlet are actually mild-mannered and quiet, arguably even simpler to care for than Litten or Popplio. This completely changes when they evolve, however. Dartrix are notoriously fickle and vain, completely losing their focus when taken by surprise. This trait continues to persist in Decidueye, though to a lesser degree. It takes a skilled trainer to placate these outbursts. ","Somewhat oddly for a first-stage Pokémon, Litten are mostly self-sufficient. Trainers often find them emotionally-distant, but otherwise easy to care for. On the other hand, Torracat can be spoiled with those they are familiar with at times, while Incineroar can easily lose self-control in combat. It is the responsibility of their trainers to rein them in and prevent harm to others; though they certainly dislike it, a spray or splash of cold water is very effective in calming them.","Somewhat oddly for a first-stage Pokémon, Litten are mostly self-sufficient. Trainers often find them emotionally-distant, but otherwise easy to care for. On the other hand, Torracat can be spoiled with those they are familiar with at times, while Incineroar can easily lose self-control in combat. It is the responsibility of their trainers to rein them in and prevent harm to others; though they certainly dislike it, a spray or splash of cold water is very effective in calming them.","Somewhat oddly for a first-stage Pokémon, Litten are mostly self-sufficient. Trainers often find them emotionally-distant, but otherwise easy to care for. On the other hand, Torracat can be spoiled with those they are familiar with at times, while Incineroar can easily lose self-control in combat. It is the responsibility of their trainers to rein them in and prevent harm to others; though they certainly dislike it, a spray or splash of cold water is very effective in calming them.","These Pokémon are perhaps the easiest of Alolan starters to raise; the biggest peril to these creatures is themselves. They are such hard workers that they will sometimes forgo their own health and well-being in favor of practice. Trainers must be sure to step in and ensure their Pokémon are well-rested. Brionne are also prone to depression because of how rarely they express their feelings. Trainers must take great care of their Primarina’s voices, as they cannot battle otherwise.","These Pokémon are perhaps the easiest of Alolan starters to raise; the biggest peril to these creatures is themselves. They are such hard workers that they will sometimes forgo their own health and well-being in favor of practice. Trainers must be sure to step in and ensure their Pokémon are well-rested. Brionne are also prone to depression because of how rarely they express their feelings. Trainers must take great care of their Primarina’s voices, as they cannot battle otherwise.","These Pokémon are perhaps the easiest of Alolan starters to raise; the biggest peril to these creatures is themselves. They are such hard workers that they will sometimes forgo their own health and well-being in favor of practice. Trainers must be sure to step in and ensure their Pokémon are well-rested. Brionne are also prone to depression because of how rarely they express their feelings. Trainers must take great care of their Primarina’s voices, as they cannot battle otherwise.","Pikipek and Trumbeak are very noisy, but they are otherwise not difficult to care for. Trainers should be sure to provide them with plenty of seeds as well as places to bore them into—if not given the latter, they will drill holes into the walls of houses and other wooden structures. Headphones are highly recommended when raising Trumbeak. Toucannon prefer to be left alone, but they do appreciate gifts of fruits and Berries.","Pikipek and Trumbeak are very noisy, but they are otherwise not difficult to care for. Trainers should be sure to provide them with plenty of seeds as well as places to bore them into—if not given the latter, they will drill holes into the walls of houses and other wooden structures. Headphones are highly recommended when raising Trumbeak. Toucannon prefer to be left alone, but they do appreciate gifts of fruits and Berries.","Pikipek and Trumbeak are very noisy, but they are otherwise not difficult to care for. Trainers should be sure to provide them with plenty of seeds as well as places to bore them into—if not given the latter, they will drill holes into the walls of houses and other wooden structures. Headphones are highly recommended when raising Trumbeak. Toucannon prefer to be left alone, but they do appreciate gifts of fruits and Berries.","Yungoos are a common Pokémon for starting trainers in Alola because of their sheer abundance. They are relatively easy to care for, with one caveat; they must be kept well-fed, as they will get very short-tempered when hungry. Since they are such voracious eaters, trainers tight on resources should consider raising other Pokémon. Gumshoos, on the other hand, are very low-maintenance and require little food to remain satisfied.","Yungoos are a common Pokémon for starting trainers in Alola because of their sheer abundance. They are relatively easy to care for, with one caveat; they must be kept well-fed, as they will get very short-tempered when hungry. Since they are such voracious eaters, trainers tight on resources should consider raising other Pokémon. Gumshoos, on the other hand, are very low-maintenance and require little food to remain satisfied.","Grubbin and their evolutions are very easy to raise. Grubbin are happy being left to their own devices as long as they have tree sap, electricity (such as a small generator), and a place to bury themselves. The same goes for Charjabug, except swapping tree sap for plant matter. Vikavolt require lots of open space and more electrical energy that their pre-evolutions; however, they are not aggressive towards familiar faces and can otherwise care for themselves.","Grubbin and their evolutions are very easy to raise. Grubbin are happy being left to their own devices as long as they have tree sap, electricity (such as a small generator), and a place to bury themselves. The same goes for Charjabug, except swapping tree sap for plant matter. Vikavolt require lots of open space and more electrical energy that their pre-evolutions; however, they are not aggressive towards familiar faces and can otherwise care for themselves.","Grubbin and their evolutions are very easy to raise. Grubbin are happy being left to their own devices as long as they have tree sap, electricity (such as a small generator), and a place to bury themselves. The same goes for Charjabug, except swapping tree sap for plant matter. Vikavolt require lots of open space and more electrical energy that their pre-evolutions; however, they are not aggressive towards familiar faces and can otherwise care for themselves.","Scrappy Crabrawler can be a handful to raise. These Pokémon love to pick fights as well as climb onto high places. They will almost inevitably get into trouble when taken outside, whether it is by provoking other Pokémon or clinging onto places they shouldn’t (and punching those that come too near). Crabominable have thick coats that make them very prone to overheating in temperate climates; trainers should trim their fur beforehand if raising them near sea level.","Scrappy Crabrawler can be a handful to raise. These Pokémon love to pick fights as well as climb onto high places. They will almost inevitably get into trouble when taken outside, whether it is by provoking other Pokémon or clinging onto places they shouldn’t (and punching those that come too near). Crabominable have thick coats that make them very prone to overheating in temperate climates; trainers should trim their fur beforehand if raising them near sea level.","Oricorio love to dance, both on their own as well as with others. They enjoy mimicking and learning dance styles from other performers, so many trainers take their Oricorio to studios and performances routinely. These Pokémon also are meticulous about their feathers and dislike getting them dirty. Different Styles prepare and preen their feathers differently to suit how they want them to look.","Tiny Cutiefly can be hard to keep track of because of their size. Because they navigate by aura, they can be difficult to feed via artificial feeders because such devices present them with no signatures. Fresh flowers are the easiest way to keep them satisfied, though trainers should be aware that they easily confuse impassioned beings for blooms. Ribombee hate rain and store their Pollen Puffs in dry places. They like to experiment with different plant extracts in their Puffs.","Tiny Cutiefly can be hard to keep track of because of their size. Because they navigate by aura, they can be difficult to feed via artificial feeders because such devices present them with no signatures. Fresh flowers are the easiest way to keep them satisfied, though trainers should be aware that they easily confuse impassioned beings for blooms. Ribombee hate rain and store their Pollen Puffs in dry places. They like to experiment with different plant extracts in their Puffs.","Trainers should first note that while raising a Rockruff until its evolution into a Lycanroc is rather simple (albeit they should be aware that it will leave home for a while before it does so), attempting to raise a wild-caught Lycanroc is extraordinarily difficult and should only be attempted by the experienced trainers. Rockruff are usually comfortable with humans, and while they can be a bit temperamental as they get older, they outgrow this phase once they evolve. Midnight Form Lycanroc do require more experience in handling than the other two forms.","Trainers should first note that while raising a Rockruff until its evolution into a Lycanroc is rather simple (albeit they should be aware that it will leave home for a while before it does so), attempting to raise a wild-caught Lycanroc is extraordinarily difficult and should only be attempted by the experienced trainers. Rockruff are usually comfortable with humans, and while they can be a bit temperamental as they get older, they outgrow this phase once they evolve. Midnight Form Lycanroc do require more experience in handling than the other two forms.","As menacing as raising a whole school of Wishiwashi would be, it is hugely impractical for one to raise that many individual Pokémon, let alone house a collective as large as a School Form Wishiwashi. Solo Form Wishiwashi are much more manageable; they are meek creatures that require lots of nooks and crannies to hide in, as even small, sudden sounds will spook them. When taken out into the wild, trained Wishiwashi can call others nearby (if any) to form schools.","These Pokémon are actually rather resilient; as long as they have Corsola horns and a stable, warm body of water to reside in, they will be content. Corsola horns are easily available at most aquaculture shops, usually sold as substrate or decorations for reef tanks. Trainers should be wary of fake plastic horns when buying decorative ones; excited Mareanie and Toxapex often will fail to see the difference.  Obviously, these Pokémon should not be raised alongside live Corsola.","These Pokémon are actually rather resilient; as long as they have Corsola horns and a stable, warm body of water to reside in, they will be content. Corsola horns are easily available at most aquaculture shops, usually sold as substrate or decorations for reef tanks. Trainers should be wary of fake plastic horns when buying decorative ones; excited Mareanie and Toxapex often will fail to see the difference.  Obviously, these Pokémon should not be raised alongside live Corsola.","It cannot be underemphasized just how much these Pokémon love mud; even hungry Mudbray will be content for a while as long as they have some to play in (though they certainly should be fed). Conversely, Mudbray will eventually refuse all orders entirely if deprived of mud. Mudsdale also enjoy mud, and even if they are less fickle than their pre-evolutions without it, trainers do comment that they seem to behave a bit more begrudgingly after staying dry for too long.","It cannot be underemphasized just how much these Pokémon love mud; even hungry Mudbray will be content for a while as long as they have some to play in (though they certainly should be fed). Conversely, Mudbray will eventually refuse all orders entirely if deprived of mud. Mudsdale also enjoy mud, and even if they are less fickle than their pre-evolutions without it, trainers do comment that they seem to behave a bit more begrudgingly after staying dry for too long.","These Pokémon need semiaquatic habitats in order to thrive, as they rest in the water but spend most of their time hunting on land. They despise sharp objects that can pop their bubbles. Araquanid should not be raised alongside small terrestrial Pokémon; even if they are well-fed, they may try to “help” rescue smaller creatures by bringing them into their bubbles and returning them to the water. They will be very persistent in ensuring their friends do not “beach” themselves again.","These Pokémon need semiaquatic habitats in order to thrive, as they rest in the water but spend most of their time hunting on land. They despise sharp objects that can pop their bubbles. Araquanid should not be raised alongside small terrestrial Pokémon; even if they are well-fed, they may try to “help” rescue smaller creatures by bringing them into their bubbles and returning them to the water. They will be very persistent in ensuring their friends do not “beach” themselves again.","Fomantis require large amounts of sunlight to grow properly. They dislike remaining in one place for long, even in the safety of civilization. Lurantis can be a bit tedious to raise because of how much they care about their appearances. Though some trainers go to great lengths to raise particularly beautiful Lurantis, however, most trainers will find that ample food, water, and sunlight is enough to keep them happy and healthy.","Fomantis require large amounts of sunlight to grow properly. They dislike remaining in one place for long, even in the safety of civilization. Lurantis can be a bit tedious to raise because of how much they care about their appearances. Though some trainers go to great lengths to raise particularly beautiful Lurantis, however, most trainers will find that ample food, water, and sunlight is enough to keep them happy and healthy.","These Pokémon require consistent daylight cycles in order to function properly; Morelull in particular regulate their feeding and sleep cycles by the light of the sun. Morelull also relocate to new patches of soil every night, so trainers should provide them with enough space to do so. Shiinotic spend their nights releasing glowing spores into the air; there seems to be a particular method in which they do so, leading some to believe they are trying to communicate with other Shiinotic.","These Pokémon require consistent daylight cycles in order to function properly; Morelull in particular regulate their feeding and sleep cycles by the light of the sun. Morelull also relocate to new patches of soil every night, so trainers should provide them with enough space to do so. Shiinotic spend their nights releasing glowing spores into the air; there seems to be a particular method in which they do so, leading some to believe they are trying to communicate with other Shiinotic.","Male Salandit are subservient, cowardly creatures that can easily be taken advantage of by more commanding Pokémon; consequently, they should not be raised alongside more domineering species. On the other hand, Salazzle can easily win over male Pokémon of any species. Trainers should teach their Salazzle to only emit their pheromones in battle to limit this, though it should be noted that they have a harder time controlling production during mating season.","Male Salandit are subservient, cowardly creatures that can easily be taken advantage of by more commanding Pokémon; consequently, they should not be raised alongside more domineering species. On the other hand, Salazzle can easily win over male Pokémon of any species. Trainers should teach their Salazzle to only emit their pheromones in battle to limit this, though it should be noted that they have a harder time controlling production during mating season.","Only the most experienced trainers should attempt to raise either of these creatures. A League permit is required to raise Bewear, as trainers must prove that they have trained their Pokémon to use nonlethal force; to date, no consistent methods have been found, so this task will vary for each trainer. Stufful loathe being touched unless they are very comfortable around the other being; trainers must prevent others from petting their Stufful so both parties remain unharmed.","Only the most experienced trainers should attempt to raise either of these creatures. A League permit is required to raise Bewear, as trainers must prove that they have trained their Pokémon to use nonlethal force; to date, no consistent methods have been found, so this task will vary for each trainer. Stufful loathe being touched unless they are very comfortable around the other being; trainers must prevent others from petting their Stufful so both parties remain unharmed.","Bounsweet are very easy to raise, as they do not need to eat and prefer to stay away from other Pokémon that may view them as food. Steenee can be a handful because of their obliviousness, but they are well-intentioned; trainers should just be sure to keep breakable objects away from them. Tsareena will only obey trainers they believe are worthy of their respect. Making intelligent calls during tough battles will go a long way towards earning a Tsareena’s loyalty.","Bounsweet are very easy to raise, as they do not need to eat and prefer to stay away from other Pokémon that may view them as food. Steenee can be a handful because of their obliviousness, but they are well-intentioned; trainers should just be sure to keep breakable objects away from them. Tsareena will only obey trainers they believe are worthy of their respect. Making intelligent calls during tough battles will go a long way towards earning a Tsareena’s loyalty.","Bounsweet are very easy to raise, as they do not need to eat and prefer to stay away from other Pokémon that may view them as food. Steenee can be a handful because of their obliviousness, but they are well-intentioned; trainers should just be sure to keep breakable objects away from them. Tsareena will only obey trainers they believe are worthy of their respect. Making intelligent calls during tough battles will go a long way towards earning a Tsareena’s loyalty.","Comfey are easy Pokémon to raise for casual trainers. Fresh flowers are all they need to be happy. Trainers should be wary of store-bought flowers, however, which may have been treated with preservatives that can their Comfey ill when they attach them to their vines. Comfey also help keep other Pokémon happy and healthy. These Pokémon do not far well in barren, arid environments, as excess dryness and heat can cause their flowers to wilt. Comfey will become very anxious when barren of blooms entirely.","Only veteran trainers should attempt to raise Oranguru. This is not because they are dangerous or difficult to care for; they are actually peaceful and can entirely care for themselves. Oranguru are very intelligent Pokémon, however, that will feel insulted and may refuse orders when commanded by trainers they believe are not as capable as themselves. They will only partner with those that have proven to be their equals or superiors in wits and strategy.","Trainers who choose to raise Passimian must be prepared to work just as hard as their Pokémon in training. They must first assert themselves as “bosses” in order to earn their Pokémon’s respect. Trainers must also lead routine, rigorous training exercises for their Passimian that they must also take part in themselves. Passimian keep a close eye on their trainers’ actions; poor form when throwing Poké Balls, for instance, can easily damage one’s reputation in their eyes.","Trainers with lots of Pokémon may have difficulty raising Wimpod, as these skittish creatures will flee at the slightest disturbance. They can easily be taken advantage of by larger, more standoffish Pokémon. Few creatures dare bother fearsome-looking Golisopod, but those that do will find that they are almost as easily bullied as Wimpod. Trainers should keep a close eye on their Golisopod to make sure that this does not occur.","Trainers with lots of Pokémon may have difficulty raising Wimpod, as these skittish creatures will flee at the slightest disturbance. They can easily be taken advantage of by larger, more standoffish Pokémon. Few creatures dare bother fearsome-looking Golisopod, but those that do will find that they are almost as easily bullied as Wimpod. Trainers should keep a close eye on their Golisopod to make sure that this does not occur.","If one plans to raise these Pokémon outside of sandy areas, they must make sure to always keep a steady supply of sand on hand. Sandygast require sand to grow larger and eventually evolve, and both evolutions gradually lose sand from natural forces like wind. They also should not be raised in excessively wet environments; while some water helps their sand hold together, too much can easily break it down.","If one plans to raise these Pokémon outside of sandy areas, they must make sure to always keep a steady supply of sand on hand. Sandygast require sand to grow larger and eventually evolve, and both evolutions gradually lose sand from natural forces like wind. They also should not be raised in excessively wet environments; while some water helps their sand hold together, too much can easily break it down.","Pyukumuku are actually very easy to raise, given the right conditions. These Pokémon should remain moist at all times, though their mucus helps them stay hydrated for up to a week. Since they dislike moving, trainers should make sure to keep a steady food source very close to them. It can be a huge hassle when Pyukumuku decide to root themselves in precarious places, such as on top of furniture. A heating pad placed over such spots will encourage them to relocate on their own.","Firsthand reports from Aether Foundation volunteers remark that Type: Null are temperamental and difficult to care for. Aether President Gladion admitted that his Silvally is sometimes still temperamental, though the episodes quickly subside. He recalled staying awake for hours at night alongside his Type: Null as it crouched over in pain, unable to sleep.","Firsthand reports from Aether Foundation volunteers remark that Type: Null are temperamental and difficult to care for. Aether President Gladion admitted that his Silvally is sometimes still temperamental, though the episodes quickly subside. He recalled staying awake for hours at night alongside his Type: Null as it crouched over in pain, unable to sleep.","Minior can adjust to sea level atmospheric conditions, with time. Minior will gradually get heavier as they grow older. Those raised by trainers rarely have to worry about pulverized shells, as falls from only a few feet up are not enough to shatter them. Attacks in battle may fragment their armor, but this usually only results in a few pieces that can easily be reassembled. Minior can repair small cracks on their own. Trainers should quickly recall Minior Cores to minimize exposure.","Trainers should not be afraid of waking their Komala; they can sleep through quite literally anything. With that said, constant loud noises (such as in cities) can make them restless, so their surroundings should be kept quite for at least some portion of the day; for most trainers, this is usually when they go to bed for the night. Komala cannot sleep well without something to cling onto; though they are most comfortable with their logs, they may also grasp onto their trainers’ arms.","Trainers should be cautious when handling both Turtonator and their food; accidental pressure can easily lead to explosions. Obviously, these Pokémon should be kept away from open flames. It is the responsibility of their trainers to properly dispose of their explosive waste; they should be kept in a large container of water until they can be deactivated with the appropriate chemicals (Poké Marts near Turtonator habitats usually carry such products).","Togedemaru take great care of their fur, as it has difficulty bristling and gathering electricity when it is matted. Their fur is water-resistant (as they usually stand in the open during storms in hopes of being struck by lightning), but dirt can weigh it down. Togedemaru will get restless if kept indoors during thunderstorms; they should be taken some distance away from houses if outside, however, as their lightning rods attract many strikes.","All Mimikyu desire in life is affection; they will gladly overlook a trainer’s shortcomings as long as they are loved. Mimikyu react adversely to light; though their costumes help protect them, they still prefer to remain in shady areas. They are very protective of their disguises and stay far away from rain, fire, and other potential damaging sources. Mimikyu repair their costumes when they are broken and need cloth, sticks, and pigments (Berry Juice usually suffices) to do so.","Bruxish are at home in warm waters. They like to bury themselves on the floors of their habitats; though they can make do with rocky substrate, they are best adapted to fine sand. Bruxish grind their teeth often (and indeed have to do so because of their fast growth rate), and the sound can induce headaches in those nearby. For this reason, they should not be raised alongside most other aquatic Pokémon and their tanks should be made soundproof.","Drampa fare best when around young children. If one does not have children of his or her own, most local school and daycares would happily accept the aid of trained Drampa. Though naturally found in high altitudes, these Pokémon seem to be able to survive just as well at sea level. Drampa prefer harvesting their own Berries so that they can select and sort them to fit their needs; trainers raising Drampa should also be prepared to plant Berry trees as well. ","Dhelmise can be difficult to read, as they do not seem to express emotions in any way that humans can easily discern. They can be difficult to raise in captivity; not only are they large, but they also have heavy anchors that can easily shatter most glass tanks. Those that do manage to create suitable enclosures for Dhelmise report that they seem very distant; if they have enough floating kelp in their tanks, they will simply mind their own businesses and go about their days. ","Jangmo-o are social creatures that have a tough time training on their own. Though they may try to appear content in solitude, they actually are far more at ease when with company. Hakamo-o, on the other hand, frequently venture out alone to find sparring partners. They like battling new opponents and get bored when fighting the same foes over and over. Kommo-o are mostly self-sufficient; they get upset when kept from fighting foes they believe are worthy of battle, however.","Jangmo-o are social creatures that have a tough time training on their own. Though they may try to appear content in solitude, they actually are far more at ease when with company. Hakamo-o, on the other hand, frequently venture out alone to find sparring partners. They like battling new opponents and get bored when fighting the same foes over and over. Kommo-o are mostly self-sufficient; they get upset when kept from fighting foes they believe are worthy of battle, however.","Jangmo-o are social creatures that have a tough time training on their own. Though they may try to appear content in solitude, they actually are far more at ease when with company. Hakamo-o, on the other hand, frequently venture out alone to find sparring partners. They like battling new opponents and get bored when fighting the same foes over and over. Kommo-o are mostly self-sufficient; they get upset when kept from fighting foes they believe are worthy of battle, however.",NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,NA,"As photosynthesizing Grass-types, these Pokémon require plenty of sunlight. All evolutions are sociable creatures that do not do well in isolation. Grookey are quick to develop close bond with other Pokémon and may get distressed when friends are traded away. These Pokémon love to make music, so they can be quite loud at times. Urban trainers should look into soundproofing material if noise is an issue, while traveling trainers may find secluded clearings to be an excellent place to practice.","As photosynthesizing Grass-types, these Pokémon require plenty of sunlight. All evolutions are sociable creatures that do not do well in isolation. Grookey are quick to develop close bond with other Pokémon and may get distressed when friends are traded away. These Pokémon love to make music, so they can be quite loud at times. Urban trainers should look into soundproofing material if noise is an issue, while traveling trainers may find secluded clearings to be an excellent place to practice.","As photosynthesizing Grass-types, these Pokémon require plenty of sunlight. All evolutions are sociable creatures that do not do well in isolation. Grookey are quick to develop close bond with other Pokémon and may get distressed when friends are traded away. These Pokémon love to make music, so they can be quite loud at times. Urban trainers should look into soundproofing material if noise is an issue, while traveling trainers may find secluded clearings to be an excellent place to practice.","These spirited Pokémon need plenty of room to run around and practice their kicking techniques. Competitive Raboot and Cinderace may enjoy training and sparring alongside Fighting-types in dojos. Cold weather can render Scorbunny sluggish and weakened due to their viscous heat sacs, though this is less of a problem for Raboot and Cinderace thanks to their thicker fur. Cinderace enjoy being cheered on in combat, especially by their trainers and fellow Pokémon.","These spirited Pokémon need plenty of room to run around and practice their kicking techniques. Competitive Raboot and Cinderace may enjoy training and sparring alongside Fighting-types in dojos. Cold weather can render Scorbunny sluggish and weakened due to their viscous heat sacs, though this is less of a problem for Raboot and Cinderace thanks to their thicker fur. Cinderace enjoy being cheered on in combat, especially by their trainers and fellow Pokémon.","These spirited Pokémon need plenty of room to run around and practice their kicking techniques. Competitive Raboot and Cinderace may enjoy training and sparring alongside Fighting-types in dojos. Cold weather can render Scorbunny sluggish and weakened due to their viscous heat sacs, though this is less of a problem for Raboot and Cinderace thanks to their thicker fur. Cinderace enjoy being cheered on in combat, especially by their trainers and fellow Pokémon.","Sobble can be quite a handful due to their timid natures and tendency to cry at the drop of a hat. They like to be near water because they can camouflage themselves into it; the mere presence of the liquid nearby helps them stay calm. Drizzile are at another extreme, being quite lazy and antisocial. It can be a real challenge to get them to train, doubly so if other Pokémon are involved. Inteleon thankfully are a bit more easygoing, though even they may not give a task their all if they do not consider it important.","Sobble can be quite a handful due to their timid natures and tendency to cry at the drop of a hat. They like to be near water because they can camouflage themselves into it; the mere presence of the liquid nearby helps them stay calm. Drizzile are at another extreme, being quite lazy and antisocial. It can be a real challenge to get them to train, doubly so if other Pokémon are involved. Inteleon thankfully are a bit more easygoing, though even they may not give a task their all if they do not consider it important.","Sobble can be quite a handful due to their timid natures and tendency to cry at the drop of a hat. They like to be near water because they can camouflage themselves into it; the mere presence of the liquid nearby helps them stay calm. Drizzile are at another extreme, being quite lazy and antisocial. It can be a real challenge to get them to train, doubly so if other Pokémon are involved. Inteleon thankfully are a bit more easygoing, though even they may not give a task their all if they do not consider it important.","Skwovet are infamous for dropping out of Berry trees on unsuspecting farmers simply trying to harvest them. This also goes for trainers picking from wild Berry trees; one should keep an eye out for rustling in the canopy before approaching a Berry tree. Skwovet and Greedent are also attracted to Berries trainers and Pokémon are carrying around, and may chew through the backpacks of camping travelers to get at them. Their senses of smell are not particularly great, so they rely mostly on sight to identify Berry stashes. Keeping Berries hidden while near the habitats of these Pokémon is a wise idea.","Skwovet are infamous for dropping out of Berry trees on unsuspecting farmers simply trying to harvest them. This also goes for trainers picking from wild Berry trees; one should keep an eye out for rustling in the canopy before approaching a Berry tree. Skwovet and Greedent are also attracted to Berries trainers and Pokémon are carrying around, and may chew through the backpacks of camping travelers to get at them. Their senses of smell are not particularly great, so they rely mostly on sight to identify Berry stashes. Keeping Berries hidden while near the habitats of these Pokémon is a wise idea.","Rookidee will likely get injured often through their scraps, but they are hardy Pokémon and can recover quickly. Tricky Dark-types will give them particular trouble by exploiting their eagerness to strike at feints. Smarter Corvisquire and Corviknight require mental stimulation to keep from getting bored. Puzzles are a good tool for this, and trainers may be surprised with how resourceful these Pokémon can be when it comes to complex toys. Overall, this line is well-suited for beginning trainers thanks to their hardy natures and self-sufficiency.","Rookidee will likely get injured often through their scraps, but they are hardy Pokémon and can recover quickly. Tricky Dark-types will give them particular trouble by exploiting their eagerness to strike at feints. Smarter Corvisquire and Corviknight require mental stimulation to keep from getting bored. Puzzles are a good tool for this, and trainers may be surprised with how resourceful these Pokémon can be when it comes to complex toys. Overall, this line is well-suited for beginning trainers thanks to their hardy natures and self-sufficiency.","Rookidee will likely get injured often through their scraps, but they are hardy Pokémon and can recover quickly. Tricky Dark-types will give them particular trouble by exploiting their eagerness to strike at feints. Smarter Corvisquire and Corviknight require mental stimulation to keep from getting bored. Puzzles are a good tool for this, and trainers may be surprised with how resourceful these Pokémon can be when it comes to complex toys. Overall, this line is well-suited for beginning trainers thanks to their hardy natures and self-sufficiency.","Antisocial Blipbug and Dottler may seem easy to raise at a glance, but trainers may come to realize that they simply do not express their discontent as other Pokémon do. Thus, it is difficult to tell whether their Pokémon are actually happy or in fact holding a grudge (which they have a penchant for doing). Superintelligent Orbeetle are generally distrustful of others unless they had developed a strong bond as Blipbug. Overall, while not particularly dangerous, they are not advisable for beginning trainers.","Antisocial Blipbug and Dottler may seem easy to raise at a glance, but trainers may come to realize that they simply do not express their discontent as other Pokémon do. Thus, it is difficult to tell whether their Pokémon are actually happy or in fact holding a grudge (which they have a penchant for doing). Superintelligent Orbeetle are generally distrustful of others unless they had developed a strong bond as Blipbug. Overall, while not particularly dangerous, they are not advisable for beginning trainers.","Antisocial Blipbug and Dottler may seem easy to raise at a glance, but trainers may come to realize that they simply do not express their discontent as other Pokémon do. Thus, it is difficult to tell whether their Pokémon are actually happy or in fact holding a grudge (which they have a penchant for doing). Superintelligent Orbeetle are generally distrustful of others unless they had developed a strong bond as Blipbug. Overall, while not particularly dangerous, they are not advisable for beginning trainers.","They are unafraid of humans and may approach travelers to investigate them.","They are unafraid of humans and may approach travelers to investigate them.","These Pokémon are not very dangerous. They prefer to float away from trouble rather than fight it. As they float together on breezes, however, they do tend to be present in large numbers. Gossifleur pollen and Eldegoss cotton both can trigger allergic reactions in those who are susceptible. When they swarm, these reactions can be quite intense; even people and Pokémon who normally experience no effects may end up with runny noses and teary eyes during their peak season. Antihistamines and pollen masks are advised for those traveling through areas where they are abundant.","These Pokémon are not very dangerous. They prefer to float away from trouble rather than fight it. As they float together on breezes, however, they do tend to be present in large numbers. Gossifleur pollen and Eldegoss cotton both can trigger allergic reactions in those who are susceptible. When they swarm, these reactions can be quite intense; even people and Pokémon who normally experience no effects may end up with runny noses and teary eyes during their peak season. Antihistamines and pollen masks are advised for those traveling through areas where they are abundant.","Rolling Wooloo are a perennial problem for rural travelers, as they can tumble down hills in huge herds without watching where they are going. These Pokémon can be easily heard well before they are seen, so trainers should keep their ears open whenever they are in farm country. Dubwool may charge at enemies if threatened, but they cannot actually gore anyone with their horns. Still, their bouncy fur will likely knock unfortunate targets right on their bottoms with surprising force. ","Rolling Wooloo are a perennial problem for rural travelers, as they can tumble down hills in huge herds without watching where they are going. These Pokémon can be easily heard well before they are seen, so trainers should keep their ears open whenever they are in farm country. Dubwool may charge at enemies if threatened, but they cannot actually gore anyone with their horns. Still, their bouncy fur will likely knock unfortunate targets right on their bottoms with surprising force. ","These Pokémon are not recommended for beginning or even intermediate trainers. They are extremely hostile and short-tempered, making them a danger to other people and Pokémon. Even tiny Chewtle can wreak havoc on their surroundings as they chomp down on things while teething. It takes a skilled trainer to properly handle these Pokémon without resulting in injury for themselves or others. Indeed, many Drednaw situations in tourist spots result from trainers releasing their Drednaw after finding themselves unable to care for them properly.","These Pokémon are not recommended for beginning or even intermediate trainers. They are extremely hostile and short-tempered, making them a danger to other people and Pokémon. Even tiny Chewtle can wreak havoc on their surroundings as they chomp down on things while teething. It takes a skilled trainer to properly handle these Pokémon without resulting in injury for themselves or others. Indeed, many Drednaw situations in tourist spots result from trainers releasing their Drednaw after finding themselves unable to care for them properly.","Yamper, while a bit scatterbrained at times, are quite affectionate and easy to care for. They love to play with both their trainers and with other Pokémon. In particular, they enjoy playing fetch with round objects. Trainers should note that Yamper will instinctively chase fast-moving objects. They also have little impulse control when it comes to treats and will overeat if treats are given too liberally. Boltund can better control themselves, but still may revert to aggression when it comes to both trained and wild Thievul.","Yamper, while a bit scatterbrained at times, are quite affectionate and easy to care for. They love to play with both their trainers and with other Pokémon. In particular, they enjoy playing fetch with round objects. Trainers should note that Yamper will instinctively chase fast-moving objects. They also have little impulse control when it comes to treats and will overeat if treats are given too liberally. Boltund can better control themselves, but still may revert to aggression when it comes to both trained and wild Thievul.","All evolutions should be kept away from water; though they can tolerate it in small amounts by converting it to steam, too much can waterlog their coal and prevent it from lighting--a dangerous situation, considering that coal is how they power themselves. These Pokémon also produce a bit of sooty smoke simply by existing, so they should be raised in well-ventilated areas and should be avoided by trainers with respiratory issues.","All evolutions should be kept away from water; though they can tolerate it in small amounts by converting it to steam, too much can waterlog their coal and prevent it from lighting--a dangerous situation, considering that coal is how they power themselves. These Pokémon also produce a bit of sooty smoke simply by existing, so they should be raised in well-ventilated areas and should be avoided by trainers with respiratory issues.","All evolutions should be kept away from water; though they can tolerate it in small amounts by converting it to steam, too much can waterlog their coal and prevent it from lighting--a dangerous situation, considering that coal is how they power themselves. These Pokémon also produce a bit of sooty smoke simply by existing, so they should be raised in well-ventilated areas and should be avoided by trainers with respiratory issues.","Applin are very easy to care for. Leave them be and keep avian Pokémon away from them, and they will evolve in their own time. Both Flapple and Appletun are similarly low-maintenance. They attract their own food simply by existing and do not require much in terms of other resources. As both Pokémon are commonly raised for their acid and nectar, respectively, trainers should refrain from harvesting too much of their produce at once, as doing so can hinder their hunting ability.","Applin are very easy to care for. Leave them be and keep avian Pokémon away from them, and they will evolve in their own time. Both Flapple and Appletun are similarly low-maintenance. They attract their own food simply by existing and do not require much in terms of other resources. As both Pokémon are commonly raised for their acid and nectar, respectively, trainers should refrain from harvesting too much of their produce at once, as doing so can hinder their hunting ability.","Applin are very easy to care for. Leave them be and keep avian Pokémon away from them, and they will evolve in their own time. Both Flapple and Appletun are similarly low-maintenance. They attract their own food simply by existing and do not require much in terms of other resources. As both Pokémon are commonly raised for their acid and nectar, respectively, trainers should refrain from harvesting too much of their produce at once, as doing so can hinder their hunting ability.","Both of these Pokémon require sand to be content and will quickly get restless if they feel they are running low. They need enough of the substance to bury themselves completely within it. As ectotherms, they rely on outside temperature regulation. Heat lamps or heated sand are both common ways to keep these Pokémon warm. Both evolutions shed routinely and and like remaining buried until their new skins harden; disturbing a freshly-molted Silicobra or Sandaconda is not recommended.","Both of these Pokémon require sand to be content and will quickly get restless if they feel they are running low. They need enough of the substance to bury themselves completely within it. As ectotherms, they rely on outside temperature regulation. Heat lamps or heated sand are both common ways to keep these Pokémon warm. Both evolutions shed routinely and and like remaining buried until their new skins harden; disturbing a freshly-molted Silicobra or Sandaconda is not recommended.","Cramorant are quite easy to care for. They do not require much more than ample food to stay satisfied, though trainers should be careful to not overfeed them. If Cramorant get food stuck in their throats, a moderate pat on the back should help them spit it out—just be sure to not stand in front of them while doing so. Cramorant may regurgitate their food to share with their trainers as a sign of affection; it is best to accept this “presents” warmly so as to not sadden them.","Wild Arrokuda and Barraskewda pose a great danger to swimmers, as they will charge at anything that moves. Beaches that are home to these Pokémon will prohibit swimming. In the wild, trainers can check the water for their presence by waving a stick or branch beneath the surface for a few minutes; the movement should attract any Arrokuda and Barraskewda that are nearby. Wooden boats should also steer clear of their habitats unless they have metal-lined hulls to avoid punctures.","Wild Arrokuda and Barraskewda pose a great danger to swimmers, as they will charge at anything that moves. Beaches that are home to these Pokémon will prohibit swimming. In the wild, trainers can check the water for their presence by waving a stick or branch beneath the surface for a few minutes; the movement should attract any Arrokuda and Barraskewda that are nearby. Wooden boats should also steer clear of their habitats unless they have metal-lined hulls to avoid punctures.","Sizzlipede inhale flammable gases from rotting plant matter and feel most comfortable with some compost always nearby. While Centiskorch are able to produce their own gas, they seem to enjoy being near detritus all the same. Centiskorch are also quite territorial and should not be kept near similarly hostile species. Both species detest water and should be kept away from it at all times.","Sizzlipede inhale flammable gases from rotting plant matter and feel most comfortable with some compost always nearby. While Centiskorch are able to produce their own gas, they seem to enjoy being near detritus all the same. Centiskorch are also quite territorial and should not be kept near similarly hostile species. Both species detest water and should be kept away from it at all times.","Toxel, despite being Baby Pokémon are fairly self-sufficient. Trainers should wear gloves when handling them, but even accidental touches are unlikely to result in lasting injuries. Wild Toxtricity, especially Amped Form individuals, can be quite dangerous, but trained Toxtricity can usually regulate their toxin production to a safe level. Both Pokémon are ectotherms that prefer warm environments. Toxtricity also enjoy chugging stagnant water, and trainers should not be alarmed if they try drinking from puddles or waste runoffs.","Toxel, despite being Baby Pokémon are fairly self-sufficient. Trainers should wear gloves when handling them, but even accidental touches are unlikely to result in lasting injuries. Wild Toxtricity, especially Amped Form individuals, can be quite dangerous, but trained Toxtricity can usually regulate their toxin production to a safe level. Both Pokémon are ectotherms that prefer warm environments. Toxtricity also enjoy chugging stagnant water, and trainers should not be alarmed if they try drinking from puddles or waste runoffs.","Trainers should steer clear of both evolutions in the wild. Though not hostile, curious Clobbopus will punch new things--including strangers--in order to learn more about them. Naturally, this can be cause for serious injury considering their strength. They are not particularly fast creatures on land, though, so escape should not be a huge issue. Grapploct are feisty duelists that will challenge anyone they see as worthy opponents. If challenged by a wild Grapploct, simply ignore its taunts, however hurtful; they are honorable fighters that will not strike an opponent that does not wish to duel.","Trainers should steer clear of both evolutions in the wild. Though not hostile, curious Clobbopus will punch new things--including strangers--in order to learn more about them. Naturally, this can be cause for serious injury considering their strength. They are not particularly fast creatures on land, though, so escape should not be a huge issue. Grapploct are feisty duelists that will challenge anyone they see as worthy opponents. If challenged by a wild Grapploct, simply ignore its taunts, however hurtful; they are honorable fighters that will not strike an opponent that does not wish to duel.","Sinistea require little care, as they are largely stationary creatures. Similarly, Polteageist are mostly self-sufficient. T","Sinistea require little care, as they are largely stationary creatures. Similarly, Polteageist are mostly self-sufficient. T","All members of this line are supremely difficult to care for due to their extreme sensitivities to noise and emotion; trainers must first be licensed by a psychiatrist in order to ensure that their own personalities will not cause their Hatenna distress. In practice, soundproofing one's house is a must when raising these Pokémon, while noise-cancelling headphones can help outdoors. Still, these Pokémon detest crowded places with many emotions in the air, and thus should only be raised in more rural environments.","All members of this line are supremely difficult to care for due to their extreme sensitivities to noise and emotion; trainers must first be licensed by a psychiatrist in order to ensure that their own personalities will not cause their Hatenna distress. In practice, soundproofing one's house is a must when raising these Pokémon, while noise-cancelling headphones can help outdoors. Still, these Pokémon detest crowded places with many emotions in the air, and thus should only be raised in more rural environments.","All members of this line are supremely difficult to care for due to their extreme sensitivities to noise and emotion; trainers must first be licensed by a psychiatrist in order to ensure that their own personalities will not cause their Hatenna distress. In practice, soundproofing one's house is a must when raising these Pokémon, while noise-cancelling headphones can help outdoors. Still, these Pokémon detest crowded places with many emotions in the air, and thus should only be raised in more rural environments.","Impidimp, while harmless, can be a pain at first to raise due to their tendencies to steal tiny things from their owners. They will often learn over time, however, that most people experience enough inconveniences in a day to satiate them without them needing to do anything. Morgrem and Grimmsnarl can be quite difficult to raise if not caught as Impidimp; trainers will need to be strict in enforcing rules for their Morgrem and Grimmsnarl to keep them from causing trouble for others.","Impidimp, while harmless, can be a pain at first to raise due to their tendencies to steal tiny things from their owners. They will often learn over time, however, that most people experience enough inconveniences in a day to satiate them without them needing to do anything. Morgrem and Grimmsnarl can be quite difficult to raise if not caught as Impidimp; trainers will need to be strict in enforcing rules for their Morgrem and Grimmsnarl to keep them from causing trouble for others.","Impidimp, while harmless, can be a pain at first to raise due to their tendencies to steal tiny things from their owners. They will often learn over time, however, that most people experience enough inconveniences in a day to satiate them without them needing to do anything. Morgrem and Grimmsnarl can be quite difficult to raise if not caught as Impidimp; trainers will need to be strict in enforcing rules for their Morgrem and Grimmsnarl to keep them from causing trouble for others.","Zigzagoon are good choices for beginning trainers. They are easy to care for and can easily adapt to life with humans. They can seem scatter-brained at first because of how easily distracted they are by their surroundings, but trainers quickly learn that they are just very curious, and usually let them fully explore what is around them. Linoone have great difficulty turning, so trainers should not walk with them on curved roads; they will likely crash very often.","The Meowth line is adapted to urban environments, so trainers in big cities will have an easy time training them. They are generally solitary, sometimes even preferring to stalk streets alone at night without their trainers. Meowth enjoy round and shiny objects. Trainers should never grab or damage a Persian’s whiskers, because the hairs are vital to the Pokémon’s ability to navigate about.","The average trainer would have a difficult time raising a Corsola. These Pokémon are very social, as one would guess from their colony-forming habits. They also fickle regarding water temperature, salinity, purity, and even sunlight--although they aren’t plants, Corsola become frail and weak when deprived of natural sunlight. Most notably, their horns will fade to a pale white if left in darkness before being treated.","Farfetch’d spend a good portion of their time in the water, so trainers should seek out small ponds, oftentimes in local parks, where their Pokémon can swim. Their leeks are of utmost importance to them, and should never leave their side. Farfetch’d will become very stressed if their leeks are taken away from them, even if they trainers simply want to clean mud off of them or something similar. Leek maintenance is best left for the Farfetch’d to handle. ","These Pokémon love performing, and will mime on street corners for fun even when they do not need food. Mime Jr. love candy and will eat it until they get sick; trainers should know that this is obviously not healthy for them and keep sweets in hard-to-reach locations. Ironically, despite often pretending to be trapped in small boxes, Mr. Mime are claustrophobic and greatly dislike actually being confined.","Yamask seem to be lonely Pokémon that are unaccustomed to attention; they may be hesitant around strangers at first, but will eventually warm up to them. Trainers should clean and shine their masks periodically, but they should never take them out of their Yamask’s sight; doing so will cause them great anxiety. Cofagrigus also should be shined periodically. They spend most of their time remaining totally still. Feeding them can be very costly, however.","These Pokémon will be perfectly content if left alone in a well-stocked pastry kitchen. Milcery love to be spun around, as it helps them agitate their cream. Both evolutions enjoy being in the kitchen when people and Pokémon are cooking, even when they are making savory dishes. They should be kept away from direct heat, however. Alcremie derive great pleasure from people, especially their trainers, enjoy pastries made with their cream. They can become talented chefs in their own right with enough practice. Bakers and pastry chefs will find these Pokémon a natural fit.","These Pokémon will be perfectly content if left alone in a well-stocked pastry kitchen. Milcery love to be spun around, as it helps them agitate their cream. Both evolutions enjoy being in the kitchen when people and Pokémon are cooking, even when they are making savory dishes. They should be kept away from direct heat, however. Alcremie derive great pleasure from people, especially their trainers, enjoy pastries made with their cream. They can become talented chefs in their own right with enough practice. Bakers and pastry chefs will find these Pokémon a natural fit.","Falinks should never be separated. A Falinks missing an individual will be unable to create formations properly, severely hindering all aspects of their lives. The brass is the most important unit of a Falinks; should the brasses go missing, the other units will be in disarray. Falinks spend much of their time practicing their formations, and trainers should make sure give them time to do so daily.",NA,"Snom and Frosmoth require freezing temperatures in order to thrive. A Snom's spikes will begin to shrink in warm climates. Snom also feel safer hidden within snow piles or dangling from the branches of trees. Frosmoth naturally migrate to follow snowy weather, but as long as their environments are suitable, trained Frosmoth do not need to do this (indeed, Snom born in arctic climates may not migrate their entire lives).","Snom and Frosmoth require freezing temperatures in order to thrive. A Snom's spikes will begin to shrink in warm climates. Snom also feel safer hidden within snow piles or dangling from the branches of trees. Frosmoth naturally migrate to follow snowy weather, but as long as their environments are suitable, trained Frosmoth do not need to do this (indeed, Snom born in arctic climates may not migrate their entire lives).","Stonjourner require next to no care at all; they are perfectly happy standing outside and watching the sun, regardless of weather. Unlike some other Rock-types, they are not bothered much by rain, as their stony bodies are not easily eroded. Even cloudy weather that obscures the sun does not hinder their sun-gazing, as they can precisely detect where the sun should be through an overcast sky.","Eiscue should be kept cold at all times. Though they can tolerate warmer temperatures for short amounts of time thanks to their chilling ice blocks, their heads are very heat-sensitive, and their ice blocks will melt quickly in hot climates. Even in cold places, Eiscue despise being ice-less and will want to dip their heads in water immediately should their ice ever shatter. Seawater or a substitute is the best choice for this, as it remains liquid below the freezing point of pure water; this allows Eiscue to dip their heads in it with ease.","Indeedee are easy Pokémon for trainers to raise thanks to their co-dependence with humans in many areas. Unless a trainer is abnormally narcissistic, Indeedee can easily feed on enough gratitude and other positive emotions throughout the course of day. Though they find anger and hostility distasteful, they are not particularly bothered by them (indeed, one would think that is a necessity for Pokémon working in the service industry). Trainers should not touch their sensitive horns without permission.","Morpeko are more or less always hungry; overfeeding is not much of an issue with these Pokémon, as their high metabolisms will burn through energy almost as fast as they can eat. Hangry Mode Morpeko are not pleasant for anyone to be around, their trainers included. Trainers must stay attentive of their Morpeko's eating habits and ensure that they always have snacks at the ready when traveling, just in case. Only responsible trainers that can quickly detect and react to the first signs of a Morpeko's hunger should attempt raising them.","These Pokémon are fairly easy-going and tolerant of a wide range of conditions. They require plenty of water and copper ore to thrive, but otherwise are a hardy species. Both evolutions are social and should not be raised in solitude, however; they can make friends with other species of Pokémon, so it is not necessary for trainers to raise an entire pack of Cufant or Copperajah for the sake of an individual.","These Pokémon are fairly easy-going and tolerant of a wide range of conditions. They require plenty of water and copper ore to thrive, but otherwise are a hardy species. Both evolutions are social and should not be raised in solitude, however; they can make friends with other species of Pokémon, so it is not necessary for trainers to raise an entire pack of Cufant or Copperajah for the sake of an individual.","Only the most experienced, well-equipped trainers should even attempt to raise any of these Pokémon. Each of them experience their own unique obstacles towards survival, and there are few resources capable of treating them should anything go wrong (which may be quite frequently). All require unique feeding methods. Arctozolt need sophisticated external temperature regulation; Dracovish need to exercise on underwater treadmills to keep up their leg strength. Arctovish need assistance breathing when in stressful conditions.","Only the most experienced, well-equipped trainers should even attempt to raise any of these Pokémon. Each of them experience their own unique obstacles towards survival, and there are few resources capable of treating them should anything go wrong (which may be quite frequently). All require unique feeding methods. Arctozolt need sophisticated external temperature regulation; Dracovish need to exercise on underwater treadmills to keep up their leg strength. Arctovish need assistance breathing when in stressful conditions.","Only the most experienced, well-equipped trainers should even attempt to raise any of these Pokémon. Each of them experience their own unique obstacles towards survival, and there are few resources capable of treating them should anything go wrong (which may be quite frequently). All require unique feeding methods. Arctozolt need sophisticated external temperature regulation; Dracovish need to exercise on underwater treadmills to keep up their leg strength. Arctovish need assistance breathing when in stressful conditions.","Only the most experienced, well-equipped trainers should even attempt to raise any of these Pokémon. Each of them experience their own unique obstacles towards survival, and there are few resources capable of treating them should anything go wrong (which may be quite frequently). All require unique feeding methods. Arctozolt need sophisticated external temperature regulation; Dracovish need to exercise on underwater treadmills to keep up their leg strength. Arctovish need assistance breathing when in stressful conditions.","Duraludon are hardy creatures that can withstand many different weather and climate conditions, but they have a huge aversion to water because they easily rust. Rain is the most obvious source of danger, but Water-types, puddles, and even water fountains in urban environments can pose a risk to these Pokémon. Duraludon can remove rust on their own and regrow damaged areas over time, but they find the process quite troublesome and prefer to avoid it unless absolutely necessary.","Dreepy need a strong support system in order to thrive. They cannot fend for themselves and rely on stronger Pokémon (not necessarily their evolutions) to take care of them. Drakloak feel compelled to care for a younger of smaller Pokémon, as do Dragapult to a lesser extent. They will become restless if left with an empty nest for extended periods of time. Overall, these Pokémon should be raised alongside other Pokémon that can develop lasting interspecies relationships in order to take advantage of their abilities.","Dreepy need a strong support system in order to thrive. They cannot fend for themselves and rely on stronger Pokémon (not necessarily their evolutions) to take care of them. Drakloak feel compelled to care for a younger of smaller Pokémon, as do Dragapult to a lesser extent. They will become restless if left with an empty nest for extended periods of time. Overall, these Pokémon should be raised alongside other Pokémon that can develop lasting interspecies relationships in order to take advantage of their abilities.","Dreepy need a strong support system in order to thrive. They cannot fend for themselves and rely on stronger Pokémon (not necessarily their evolutions) to take care of them. Drakloak feel compelled to care for a younger of smaller Pokémon, as do Dragapult to a lesser extent. They will become restless if left with an empty nest for extended periods of time. Overall, these Pokémon should be raised alongside other Pokémon that can develop lasting interspecies relationships in order to take advantage of their abilities.",NA,NA,NA,